Charlie Sheen, appearing on cable television news network station CNN on March 24, questioned the credibility of the theory that 19 hijackers caused all of the destruction to the World Trade Center.

Sheen said; "It seems to me like, you know, 19 amateurs with box cutters taking over four commercial airliners and hitting 75 percent of their targets, that feels like a conspiracy theory… I am an American citizen that loves my country…. People want the truth. They want the truth. And what's been offered to us resembles nothing of the sort."

In recounting his reaction on the day of the event, Sheen said,"I was up early and we were gonna do a pre-shoot on Spin City, the show I used to do. I was watching the news and the north tower was burning. There was a feeling, it just didn't look like any commercial jetliner I've flown on any time in my life and then when the buildings came down later on that day I said to my brother, 'Call me insane but did it sorta look like those buildings came down in a controlled demolition?" 

Writer Marc Jacobson, of the New York magazine, who co-appeared with Sheen on the same program said in response: "Well, I think he's doing a reasonable rendition of what other people that believe in this stuff say. And when he says he has his facts straight, I mean, I think the facts are in question. I mean, I think, just because you know what it says on all of these different Web sites doesn't mean that that's necessarily the fact. That's the reason why the United States government, with their endless amounts of resources, let us down by not doing the proper work on the 9/11 Commission. That's a real problem. Well, you know, but, I mean, it's just one of those kind of things where you do this work and nobody really cares, but then Charlie Sheen is interested, so then everybody is interested, and that's fine. You know, obviously, this material needs to be looked at again, because there's been a lot of problems with the 9/11 Commission report. People feel it's not adequate. Most of the people who had lost people during that time feel it's not adequate. And it's just I think we're living in a truth vacuum, in a sense, that any time there's a truth vacuum, these ideas -- because people are smart. They put two and two together. Sometimes they get five; sometimes they get 12, but sometimes they get 11, like 9/11, but sometimes they get four. And the thing is that, if you have a situation where the so-called facts are covered up and aggressively covered up, then you're going to get these conspiracy theories." One website is claiming that Google had been censoring out any news articles relating to Sheen and 9/11 from it's search engine.

Regarding the plane that hit the Pentagon, Sheen also has questions: "Just show us how this particular plane pulled off these maneuvers… It is up to us to reveal the truth. It is up to us because we owe it to the families, we owe it to the victims, we owe it to everyone's life who was drastically altered, horrifically, that day and forever. We owe it to them to uncover what happened." 

Some supporters of Sheen's theories have complained about the lack of mainstream media coverage. They point to CNN's recent cancellation of Ed Asner's interview on Showbiz Tonight, where he was expected to support Sheen's position, as an example of the "media blackout".  

Marina Hyde of The Guardian proposed a theory of her own with regard to Sheen: "Frankly, with dentistry as expensive as yours, you simply can't afford to let The Man stamp his jackboot down on your face, and so it is that when faced with the inquiry 'did Lee Harvey Oswald act alone?', you find yourself thinking: 'God, I mean… do any of us? Like, he had to have people, you know? At least an agent and a publicist.'"