Afghan presidential candidate Abdullah Abdullah said today that he will not participate in this week's runoff election against President Hamid Karzai, accusing the government of not meeting his demands for a fair vote.

Abdullah said that his withdrawal is in protest of what he called the misconduct of the government and the country's Independent Election Commission (IEC).

Abdullah had given Karzai until Saturday to remove the country's top election official Azizullah Ludin in an effort to avoid a repeat of the massive fraud that marred the August 20 presidential election. He also asked that four of the ministers who had campaigned for Karzai be suspended.

"I will not participate in the November 7 election [because a] transparent election is not possible," Abdullah said.

At a meeting in a tent in Afghanistan's capital Kabul, the candidate addressed a crowd of supporters. “In order to look God in the eye at this historic moment, I have made a decision,” he told the meeting in a giant tent in Kabul. In protest against the illegal actions of the government and the electoral commission, I will not participate in the run-off. It hasn’t been easy for me to make this decision."

Negotiations between the Karzai and Abdullah campaigns regarding Abdullah's demands were held, but broke down early on Sunday, after Karzai completely rejected the deal. According to an unnamed diplomat, had Karzai agreed to the deal, Abdullah would have conceded, instead of withdrawing from the polls.

"In one hour, all my conditions could have been implemented. Unfortunately, until the last moment we were waiting, but we heard they rejected our appeals," Abdullah said.

Waheed Omar, a spokesman for the Karzai campaign, defended Karzai's refusal, saying that the president didn't have the power to implement Abdullah's demands. "What the UN called a shake-up of the election commission, that also to most part took place. But this specific demand was about removing the chairman of the election commission - constitutionally the President cannot remove them unless they are convicted by the court of law," he said.

Following his announcement, Abdullah requested his supporters "not to take to the streets. Not to feel grief. I know it is difficult," Abdullah said. "After all, this is not [a] democratic environment. But at the same time, it is for a good cause. It is for the future generations of this country."

"The people have the right to have a fair election. But this election was a failure. It was not independent. It was not transparent."

In an interview with the Al Jazeera news agency, Abdullah described his feelings. "It was the right decision, and I did it in the best interests of this country. As far as the process is concerned, hopefully there is a way forward. I will not enter into the constitutional implications of this decision. But I'll be pursuing the agenda for change and reform in any capacity that I'll be."

Karzai campaign spokesman Omar said he believed the election is the right of the Afghan people. "The withdrawal was Dr. Abdullah's personal choice. That should not affect the process as a whole," Omar said. He described the withdrawal as "unfortunate", but said he believed the elections should still continue. "We believe that the elections have to go on, the process has to complete itself, the people of Afghanistan have to be given the right to vote."

This election's first polls, which were held this August, were affected by large amounts of ballot-stuffing, and over a million votes, or about a quarter of all ballots cast, were discounted by the election commissions. As a result, Karzai's vote count dropped to 49.67%, below the minimum of 50% needed to win the election without going into a runoff. Abdullah received 31% of the ballot.

=