Canadian vehicle and equipment manufacturers Bombardier announced on Thursday that Air Independence and Libyan Airlines have placed orders for new aircraft valued at a total US$190 million, excluding any optional extras at customer specification.

Air Independence, a European business aviation services company that already operates two Challenger 604 jets and one Challenger 800, have ordered 3 widebody Challenger 605 business jets, with a total value of US$82 million. In a separate order, Libyan Airlines have ordered 3 Bombardier CRJ900 regional jets with a value of approximately US$108 million. Air Independence's aircraft will be delivered between October 2009 and February 2010 and will be based in Munich.

Managing director of Air Independence Andrian Feuchter said "Our customers love our current Challenger business jet fleet. Spacious, ultra silent cabins, transcontinental range, versatility and overall travel comfort make this family of aircraft perfect for European charter operation. We expect this satisfaction level will climb even higher once the Challenger 605 jets join the fleet. The cabin feels even more spacious and brighter and the aircraft's impressive new technology features will undoubtedly contribute towards even greater passenger comfort and productivity."

The deal with Libyan Airlines had already been announced on June 6, but the purchaser had not been disclosed at the time. Libyan Airlines currently operate aircraft in Africa, Europe and the Middle East. Libyan Airlines chairman Eng. Tarek Arebi said "This purchase represents the launching of our fleet renewal program. The CRJ900 aircraft was selected because we believe it is the type of regional jet that can meet the requirement of domestic and regional routes on our network."

In other Bombardier related aviation news, the company has announced that they will display five planes, including the new 76-passenger Bombardier CRJ900 NextGen, at the upcoming Paris Air Show, which will run from June 18 to June 24. The other aircraft will be the Q400 turboprop, and business jets Learjet 45 XR, Challenger 605 and Global 5000.