Al-Qaeda has said it will continue to launch more terrorist attacks on the U.S. and warned the death of their leader Osama bin Laden, would "not be wasted". The statement from the organization, posted on jihadist internet forums, came as the Pentagon released videos filmed inside the terrorist leader's compound which was raided last weekend. Intelligence officials said at a briefing in Washington, D.C. that the videos showed that bin Laden was still playing an active role in al-Qaeda plotting.

Although the video tapes have no audio, they show bin Laden watching news coverage of himself on television and preparing to record a propaganda film. The tapes are the latest intelligence to emerge from computer equipment seized from bin Laden's compound during the raid on his compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan by U.S. special forces last weekend. Earlier this week it emerged bin Laden had been planning an attack on the American rail network on the tenth anniversary of the September 11 attacks this year. U.S. officials yesterday stressed that the al-Qaeda plot was only "aspirational", but involved derailing multiple trains by damaging rail lines at various sites. 


Tonight one intelligence official said the information gleaned from the computers was the "single largest collection of senior terrorist materials ever." The computer equipment also revealed that there were hopes of attacking major transportation hubs, and that during the six years he lived at the compound in Pakistan, bin Laden stayed in close contact with senior affiliates and played an active role in developing terrorist plots. An unnamed U.S. official told The New York Times that bin Laden "wasn't just a figurehead," but "continued to plot and plan, to come up with ideas about targets and to communicate those ideas to other senior al-Qaeda leaders."

Confirming the death of bin Laden in a statement this week, al-Qaeda said his killing would be a "curse" on the U.S. and its allies. "Their happiness will turn into sorrow, and their blood will be mixed with their tears. We call upon our Muslim people in Pakistan, on whose land Sheikh Osama was killed, to rise up and revolt." The revelation that al-Qaeda was planning more attacks against the U.S. comes only several days after officials warned the terrorist group was likely to be plotting a revenge attack to avenge the death of bin Laden.

=