The Albuquerque Academy eighth grade basketball team used tough defense to close out the 2005-2006 season with a win, 46-30 over Los Lunas.

The Chargers spread things evenly in the first quarter; five players scored for the team in the period. Both forward Jon Cabarrus and guard Dylan Gordon followed their own shots and scored on putbacks. Forwards Xavier Moya and Chris Thompson provided tough inside defense on one possession. While Los Lunas managed several rebounds, they were unable to get any baskets over the outstretched arms of Moya and Thompson.

Cabarrus scored on another putback for his fourth points of the game late in the quarter, helping Academy to a twelve to eight lead at the end of the first.

The second period was a low scoring one for both teams. The Chargers scored just nine points, but also held Los Lunas to only three. Both offenses were struggling when guard Andrew Matthew stole the ball and made a pass to Gordan, who threw another pass to fellow guard Jordan Fleisher, who took the ball and scored on a layup.

With a minute in the half, reserve Matt Brown took a pass and drove the length of the court for a layup. Academy ended the second half with a twenty-one to eleven lead.

Academy again spread the ball around in the second half, with eight Charger players scoring. Leading the way in the second half was Patrick Zacharias, who scored seven points in the half.

Gordon connected with Thompson on a play that gave Thompson a layup. Gordon stole the ball away from Los Lunas and made a pass to Thompson while sandwiched between two Los Lunas defenders. Thompson received the pass under the basket and scored on a layup.

Los Lunas came back with a three pointer by #24 and some layups by other players. The quarter ended with Academy still holding the lead, 33-22.

AA was again playing tough defense midway through the fourth quarter until #32 hit a three pointer, sparking a small Los Lunas rally, but it was not enough to overcome the offense and defense of the Chargers. 

Zacharias scored on a tip in of a Gordon shot that hung on the rim and fell out. Zacharias was also fouled on the shot and made the free throw to complete the three point play. Team manager Lincoln Stanfield also saw action in the game, and even scored his first points of the season at the end of the fourth quarter. With less than fifteen seconds left, Stanfield received a pass underneath the basket. His shot didn't fall, but he was fouled with seven seconds left. Stanfield's first free throw bounced up after hitting the rim but didn't fall through. His second shot bounced high in the air two times before falling through the hoop. Stanfield threw his arms up in celebration over his made shot, putting an end to Academy's 14-1 season.