Argentina has defeated Wales in rugby at Raul Conti Stadium in Puerto Madryn on Sunday. Both nations scored three tries each, but it was the kicking of Federico Todeschini that got Argentina home in the 27 to 25 win. It was Welsh head coach Gareth Jenkins's first game in charge.

After opening pressure applied by the Welsh, Mark Jones scored the opening try of the game, dashing over in the corner to give the Welsh a five to nil lead after five minutes. The try was not converted. However Argentina was quick to reply as Juan Manuel Leguizamon scores a try for the Pumas one minute later to level the scores at five-all. With Federico Todeschini being successful with his conversion, Argentina takes the lead seven to five. Ian Evans intercepts a pass and runs 60m to score Wales' second try. With Nicky Robinson's conversion, Wales is back in front with a 12 to seven lead. Gavin Thomas is yellow-carded at the ruck which results in a penalty for Argentina which Todeschini kicks to bring the score to 12 to 10 to Wales. One man down, Wales avoids conceding another try as Ignacio Fernandez Lobbe penalisesd for a double-movement. One minute from half-time Wales has second played yellow-carded in Alix Popham. Argentina scores a late try with Jose Maria Nunez Piossek running in the right corner. Todeschin adds the conversion,subsequent penalty shots are taken by both nations, though Wales' missed and Argentina goes into the break leading 20 to 12.

Six minutes into the second half, Robinson misses a long range penalty goal and the scores remain at 20 to 12 for Argentina. However, in the 62nd minute he gets another shot at goal and is successful to get Wales to 15 to 20. Minutes later Rodrigo Roncero is sent to the sin bin for Argentina, and Robison kicks a penalty goal to narrow the gap to 20 to 18. With just two points separating the nations, with three minutes remaining, Francisco Leonelli scores a try for Argentina and Todeschini's conversion takes their lead to 27 to 18. However, in the third minute of extra play, James Hook scores a try for Wales and Robinson adds the conversion. However, after Wales is penalised for holding on in a tackle, the referee signals the end of the match and Argentina wins 27 to 25.