Arnold Schwarzenegger, the current governor of California, started his three day visit to Canada yesterday.

Upon arrival at the Pearson International Airport in Toronto, Schwarzenegger was met with Ontario premier Dalton McGuinty and U.S. Ambassador David Wilkins.

He arrived at the Delta Chelsea hotel in downtown Toronto, where Canadian reporters waited to ask him questions. At a Liquor Control Board of Ontario (LCBO) store, workers and shoppers were stunned to see the former actor, who came to promote California wine with LCBO chairman Phillip Olsson; after, he gave autographs to his many fans. Schwarzenegger then arrived at a local grocery store promoting California fruits and vegetables.

He was presented with a Special Olympics jacket at the hotel, where the unveiling of Team Canada's new uniforms took place.

He then arrived at the Liberty Grand hotel to give a speech.

"It's great to be here in Canada --a trade mission means not just trading good and services but also ideas," Schwarzenegger told reporters.

Both politicians signed an agreement today for Ontario and California to donate $30 million over 5 years for stem cell research. They also signed an agreement today for low-carbon fuel standards.

"All great things start on the grassroots level," said Schwarzenegger. "Eventually, the federal government is going to get it."

McGuinty told reporters that he doesn't want to "over-power" the Canadian government itself by being the only province in the country to have limited emissions from vehicles, noting the whole country should follow Schwarzenegger's plan.

Schwarzenegger, today, made a brief speech at Toronto's Economic Club at The Sheraton Centre Grand Ballroom, 123 Queen Street West, at around 12:50 p.m. ET and is expected to receive the Newsmaker of the Year award there.

He is set to meet with Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper today in Ottawa as well as British Columbia premier Gordon Campbell in Vancouver on Thursday. He will talk more about Climate change and stem cell research.

Schwarzenegger also put his bid for the Ducks to win the 2007 Stanley Cup Finals tonight in Anaheim, California against the Ottawa Senators, whom McGuinty put his support behind.