On Friday, the Aussie Spirit finished their test series against the Japan women's national softball team with a 6-5 victory, winning two out of seven games against the second ranked team in the world. The series had important implications for both teams as their coaches need to trim their rosters down from twenty to seventeen ahead of the World Championships later this year in Canada.

The last game of the series came down to Australia's final batter. The game was tied 5-5 going into the bottom of the seventh inning. Clare Warwick led off the inning with a double. Chelsea Forkin then grounded out but advanced Warwick to third. Brenda De Blaes then made a base hit. The Japanese attempted a throw home to prevent Warwick from scoring. In the run down to try to tag her out, the catcher made an error and overthrew the ball to the third baseman that allowed Warwick to score and end the game. 

In the first two games of the series on Wednesday, Australia lost 3-2 and 5-3. On Thursday night, with several home runs having been scored on both sides, Australia lost both games to Japan by scores of 10-7 and 7-4. Friday night, Australia won the first game 5-3 and lost the second one 7-1.

 
Image:Australia v Japan Game 7 034.JPG|Shizuyo Hamamoto of Japan during today's game. 
Image:Australia v Japan Game 7 026.JPG|Haruna Sakamoto of Japan catching during today's game. 
Image:Australia v Japan match 5 1500.JPG|A Japanese player is introduced before the first game yesterday. 
Image:Aus v Jap test 1 089.JPG|Jodie Bowering of Australia at bat while Kazuki Watanabe of Japan catches during the first game on Wednesday night. 
Image:Aus v Jap test 1 169.JPG|Michelle Cox at bat during the second game on Wednesday night. 
Image:Aus v Jap test 1 155.JPG|Chelsea Forkin (25), Jodie Bowering (27) and Jade Wall (1) before Wednesday night's second game. 
Image:Aus v Jap test 1 032.JPG|The scoreboard during the first game on Wednesday night's game. 
Image:Aus v Jap test 1 131.JPG|Japanese players cheer on their team during the first game on Wednesday night.