Australia defeated Ireland 37 points to 15 at Subiaco Oval in Perth, Australia on Saturday in a rugby union test match. The Wallabies had just come of a successful two test series win over England whilst the Irish had come from two competitive losses against the All Blacks in New Zealand. The win makes it three from three for new Australian coach John Connolly.

The scoring opened after 13 minutes of play, with Australia being awarded a penalty. Stirling Mortlock was successful with the shot at goal to take Australia to a three to nil lead. Ireland successfully held Australia for the following ten minutes, until Chris Latham dived over to score the first try of the match. Mortlock missed the conversion and Australia led eight points to nil. Ireland is awarded a penalty in the 29th minute which sees Ronan O'Gara successfully kick a goal for Ireland, getting its first points of the game bringing the score to eight to three, with Australia having a five point lead. Australia furthers its lead when Mortlock is successful with another penalty goal around five minutes before half time. The teams entered half time, with Australia in front, 11 points to three.

Ireland is quick to get back into the match, with a try to O'Gara in the 42nd minute. Although the conversion is missed, Ireland has moved closer to Australia, with the score narrowed to 11 points to eight. Ireland scores again in the 51st minute, with Neil Best scoring a try, and along with O'Gara's successful conversion, Ireland is now in front, 15 to 11, with just under 30 minutes remaining in the match. Australia is quick to respond, with Mark Gerrard scoring a try a few minutes later. Mortlock is successful with the conversion, and Australia takes back the lead, with the score now at 18 to 11. Prop Greg Holmes gathers a loose ball and runs over 50m to score for Australia. Mortlock converts and Australia leads 25 to 15 with around 20 minutes remaining. George Gregan scores a try for Australia in the 67th minute, with Mortlock missing the conversion, Australia now leads 30 to 15, making an Irish comeback unlikely, with just over ten minutes left in the match. Cameron Shepherd scores the last try of the match, which is converted by Mortlock, making the final score 37 to 15.