Australian Guantanamo Bay detainee David Hicks has won British citizenship, opening the door for a possible bid to have him freed from the US detention facility in Cuba.

Justice Lawrence Collins of the British High Court has overturned the British Government's refusal of citizenship to Hicks, whose mother was born in England. Justice Collins said the Government had "no power to withhold or deprive citizenship".

Justice Collins said: "In my view it would be improper to fail to give assistance which otherwise would have been given, simply because the claimant was believed to be involved in terrorism and has not had any previous connection with this country."

Hicks' lawyer, Stephen Grosz, said the decision was a breakthrough. He said there was now no reason why Hicks should not enjoy the same protection as the nine other British citizens released without charge from Guantanamo Bay on representations of the British Government.

The British Government has repeatedly condemned Guantanamo as an abuse of legal process. Lawyers acting for British Home Secretary Charles Clarke immediately announced that they would take the matter to the Court of Appeal. But Justice Collins refused the British Government a stay of his judgement, meaning that the Government is compelled to proceed with Hicks' citizenship application.

The British Government is anxious not to award Hicks citizenship as it fears that Hicks' reaction would be to immediately renounce his Australian citizenship. This would make Mr Hicks the primary responsibility of the British Government, which could not then strip him of his British citizenship as it would leave him stateless.

Mr Hicks's lawyers argue that the Australian government has refused to plead for his release and has made no attempt to prevent his trial by a US military commission. Whereas the UK government acted to remove its citizens imprisoned at Guantánamo, and would be compelled to call for the release of Mr Hicks.

After today's ruling, his lawyers will now press the British government to make arrangements for him to take the required citizenship oath and pledge. They will then urge the Home Office to seek his release from the detention centre, in Cuba, and bring him to the UK. 

Hicks, a former kangaroo skinner and Muslim convert was caught in Afghanistan in December 2001. He faces charges including conspiracy to commit war crimes and aiding and abetting the enemy, all of which he denies.