Steelmaking at Australia’s largest steelmaking plant, Port Kembla Steelworks, is to continue after the BlueScope Board, on Monday, decided on its future. Operating losses, weakening product demand and a global steel glut forced the Board to demand the Steelworks come up with saving of $200 million annually for the next two years,to include the loss of 500 local jobs, or be closed. A commitment by employees, the unions, the company and the New South Wales government has enabled the savings to be made, securing the plants' future.
 
The Steelworks, located at Port Kembla in the Illawarra region of New South Wales has been operating since 1928 and has the capacity to produce 2.6 million tonnes of crude steel annually. Currently there is a direct workforce of 3500 with an additional 1500 contractors.

BlueScope recently announced a $136.3 million profit for the 2014-15 financial year however its steelmaking division has been operating at an annual loss of $200 million. As a result BlueScope shareholders gave the Steelworks the option of finding cost savings of $200 million annually for the next two years which would include the loss of 500 local jobs or if this was not achievable, closing the Port Kembla Steelworks.

A report commissioned by the Australian Workers Union and carried out by a team of economic modellers from the University of Wollongong predicted that the closure of the Port Kembla Steelworks would result in 10,000 directly dependent jobs disappearing, the doubling of the adult unemployment rate in the region and a $3.3 billion hole in the Illawarra economy.

The financial problems facing BlueScope Steel have been the result of weakening product demand and a global steel glut.
"China is exporting production equivalent to 45 Port Kemblas," said BlueScope Steel chief executive Paul O'Malley.

Factors that helped the company find the $200 million annual savings required included BlueScope steelworkers voting in favour of a union formulated enterprise agreement to forfeit jobs and working conditions, a $60 million deferral of payroll tax payments for three years and a $100 million cut in raw materials, operational and service costs. The lower A$: US$ has also been of benefit to the Port Kembla Steelworks.
Five hundred jobs will still be lost in the region and the Board’s decision to continue steelmaking at Port Kembla is subject to formal ratification of the new enterprise agreements.