Australian top-tier female tennis player, Samantha Stosur, yesterday revealed to the press she has split with long-term coach and mentor David Taylor.
 
The break-up took place after she lost to Simona Halep of Romania in the third round at last week's Cincinnati Masters. "I think we both were kind of feeling that we'd almost come to the end. Unfortunately, it happened to be last week," she declared.


Stosur claimed her fourth WTA title in Carlsbad earlier this month, against Belarusian Victoria Azarenka — a former world number 1 and victor of last week's Cincinnati Masters. "Neither of us, I'm sure, would have wanted it to happen right then, and obviously with winning that tournament almost makes it seem a little bit strange," Stosur acknowledged. 

In eight days, the US Open — which Stosur won in 2011 — is scheduled to begin at its usual venue in Flushing Meadows, New York. Stosur says she feels confident for the weeks ahead, having already proved capable of ousting Azarenka: "I think now coming into the US Open I'm feeling quite good. Of course it's a new week and you've got to make sure you keep doing everything you need to do to continue on with that success."

Australian former tour player Alicia Molik, already with other duties at the Open, has agreeed to fill the role of Taylor. While these arrangements are not permanent, Stosur now has someone to support her on the practice court, and closely watch her matches during the two weeks as per usual. No word yet has been made on who her new coach may be, and she anticipates no change in this until the Open has concluded: "after this tournament I will kind of assess what I want to do, who maybe it can be, and go from there. But there is no one in particular at the moment."

Stosur nor Taylor haven't spoken since last week's break-up; however, she says she hopes this does not remain the case. "[W]e spent so much time together and have been through so much, I'm sure we can look past it and be friends", she stated.

Stosur's first-round much is set for Tuesday against US newcomer Victoria Duval.