32-year-old Belinda Emmett, Rove McManus's wife, died this morning in St Vincent hospital, Sydney, Australia due to cancer. Ms Emmett's family said in a statement: "It is with great sadness we advise that Belinda Emmett's battle with cancer has ended."

Because of her death, with Rove McManus, or more correctly John McManus, and other family at her side, Rove has cancelled next Tuesdays Rove Live show. A statement on Network Ten, which airs Rove Live, said: "Ten will give Rove the time he needs away from the show and any support we can during this very sad time."

"Belinda passed away just after dawn this morning at St Vincent's Hospital in Sydney with her family and husband by her side. However the hospital will not divulge how long she was being treated for at the hospital. A spokesman for the hospital said: "As you can imagine, they are very distressed."

When Ms Emmett was 24-years-old in 1998, she was diagnosed with breast cancer. Successful surgery removed a malignant tumour, radiotherapy followed for a total of six weeks. Then, in 2001, Ms Emmett was diagnosed with secondary bone cancer.

"Network Ten notes with great sadness Belinda Emmett's passing this morning. Our heartfelt sympathies are with Rove McManus and the Emmett and McManus families. We add our support to the call for media and members of the public to respect Rove's privacy."

TV station, Seven, where Ms Emmett worked as an actor also showed their support saying: "Our deepest sympathy is extended to Belinda's family who have supported her through this illness. During Belinda's time on Home and Away and All Saints, she made many long-lasting friendships. Her acting ability and her warmth made her a joy to work with and her spirit will be remembered."

The Australian Prime Minister, John Howard, said their family is saddened by the news of hearing that Ms Emmett had passed away. "She fought a very courageous battle against cancer," said Mr Howard, "On behalf of Janette and myself, I extend my deepest sympathies to her husband, Rove McManus, and her family and friends."

The leader of the opposition, Kim Beazley, said that their family had also passed on their sympathy to the Emmett and McManus families. "This is truly sad news which I think will affect all Australians," Mr Beazley said, "The tenderness and care in their relationship (Rove and Belinda) through their adversity, I think, has been an inspiration to many many Australians."