It has been announced that Bilawal Bhutto Zardari, 19, the son of former Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto will take her place as the head of the Pakistan People's Party (PPP) and lead the party alongside his father Asif Ali Zardari. It is also announced and confirmed that the PPP along with the Nawaz Sharif's Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N), will contest the upcoming elections for a new Prime Minister on January 8.

"I stand committed to the stability of the federation. The long and historic struggle for democracy will continue with renewed vigor. My mother always said democracy is the best revenge," said Bhutto in a statement during a press conference today.

It is reported that Benazir wanted her son to take her place if anything happened to her, according to her will which was written just two days before she returned to Pakistan from exile in October.

It has also been announced that the PPP has voted in favor of a resolution that calls for an investigation into Benazir's assassination which will be given to the United Nations. The resolution says that they would like the United Kingdom to help with the investigation, and that the PPP does not trust any investigations performed by the government of Pakistan.

Despite Bhutto being the new head of the PPP, Zardari says that Mukhdoom Amin Fahim, a loyal party member, will run in any elections for a new Pakistani Prime minister. But his bid for the seat may have to wait.

The current ruling party in Pakistan the PML-Q party states that because of continuing violence and riots in Pakistan that were set off by Benazir's assassination, elections may not be held for another three months or more. So far, elections are scheduled to take place on January 8, 2008.

Asif Ali Zardari is expected to handle the Party's affairs until Bhutto returns from England, where he is currently in school studying in Christ Church, at the University of Oxford. When he returns, control of the Party will be handed over to him. Despite that, Zardari states that he will be answering questions from the media and politicians because Bhutto is still "of a tender age."