Professional photographer John B. Mueller was at the Children Uniting Nations/Billboard Academy Awards afterparty red carpet, taking photos for Wikinews. It is one of the largest events, following only the Vanity Fair and Elton John AIDS Foundation Party in size.

Among the guests at the event were Lil' Kim, Bow Wow, Ruben Studdard, Diane DeGarmo, DMX, Darryl 'DMC' McDaniels, DJ Spinderella, Dennis Hopper, Blu Cantrell, Tyler Hilton, Erik Palladino, Daniel Cage, Farnsworth Bentley, Aaron Carter, Nick Carter, Cindy Margolis, LaToya Jackson, AJ McLean, Joey Fatone, Shar Jackson, Tyrese, Tyson Beckford, Tara Reid, Rosie Perez, Radha Mitchell, MC Lyte, Jane Seymour, James Keach, Fran Drescher, Tommy Davidson, Bruce Davison, and Adam Kowalczyk.

Even Mickey Rooney stopped by to watch the ceremonies.

Larry Birkhead, boyfriend of the late-Anna Nicole Smith was still on the guest list, according to press materials. No media outlet reported him attending, so it is likely he stayed in Florida for the on-going legal proceedings.

All of the photos taken by Mueller at the event are released under the Creative Commons By Attribution license, which allows them to be used freely by anyone for any purpose, so long as they credit both Mueller and Wikimedia.

 
Image:Academy Awards afterparty CUN Kirk Jones.jpg|Kirk "Sticky Fingaz" Jones recently launched a new clothing line...
Image:Academy Awards afterparty CUN DMX and woman.jpg|As is DMX, with his DMX Authentic and Earl Simmons Signature Collections.
Image:Academy Awards afterparty CUN Blu Cantrell.jpg|Blu Cantrell was one of the night's performers...
Image:Academy Awards afterparty CUN Fab Morvan.jpg|...but thankfully Milli Vanilli frontman Fab Morvan didn't try to lip-sync along.
Image:Academy Awards afterparty CUN Noureen DeWulf.jpg|Rising actress Noureen DeWulf recently appeared in Mandy Moore pic American Dreamz
Image:Academy Awards afterparty CUN Tyler Hilton.jpg|While hotel heiress Paris Hilton didn't show up, Tyler Hilton did.
Image:Academy Awards afterparty CUN Terry Crews.jpg|Everybody Hates Chris dad Terry Crews stopped for the cameras.
Image:Academy Awards afterparty CUN Mitchell Musso.jpg|Hannah Montana star Mitchel Musso was a guest. Recently Wikinews spotted him at the Annie Awards, for Monster House.
Image:Academy Awards afterparty CUN David Faustino.jpg|After filing for divorce, David Faustino (Bud Bundy, Married with Children) is on the singles market.
Image:Academy Awards afterparty CUN Bruce Davison.jpg|Bruce Davison takes it easy, after recently finishing the film Special Ops: Delta Force, in which he stars as General Preston Rossdale.
Image:Academy Awards afterparty CUN Celestina.jpg|Celestina, from Jennifer Lopez's Dancelife reality show, dances onto the red carpet.
Image:Academy Awards afterparty CUN Hood Surgeon Curtis Young 2.jpg|Curtis "Hood Surgeon" Young, Dr. Dre's son, represents Compton and So Hood Records.
Image:Academy Awards afterparty CUN Kay Panabaker.jpg|George is the upcoming Nancy Drew movie, Kay Panabaker is the title character in Moondance Alexander, which is in post-production.
Image:Academy Awards afterparty CUN Lainey Kazan.jpg|Lainie Kazan was nominated for a Golden Globe for her role in 1982 flick My Favorite Year.
Image:Academy Awards afterparty CUN Luenell.jpg|Luenell, who was one of the few actual actors in Borat! Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan.