After hosting the United States gameshow The Price Is Right, Bob Barker has decided to call it quits and retire from being the gameshow's 35 year-long host. Barker plans to end the show in June of 2007.

"I will be 83 years old on December 12 ... and I've decided to retire while I'm still young," jokes Barker. Explaining why he has been on American televisions for over 50 years, Barker said "I've gone on and on and on to this ancient age because I've enjoyed it."

"I'm just reaching the age where the constant effort to be there and do the show physically is a lot for me. I might be able to do the show another year, but better [to retire] a year too soon than a year too late," added Barker.

Barker first started to host gameshows in 1956 when he hosted Truth or Consequences and started to host The Price is Right on September 4, 1972 where, to this day, he has been the gameshow's host.

Barker is hinting the possibility of appearing in a few movies, but jokes around saying he will not appear in any "nude scenes."

"I refuse to do nude scenes. These Hollywood producers want to capitalize on my obvious sexuality, but I don't want to be just another beautiful body," said Barker in a joking manner.

CBS calls Barker a "legend" and an "entertainment icon."

The first thing he plans to do after retiring is "sit down for maybe a couple of weeks and find out what it feels like to be bored," said Barker.

"Bob Barker is a daytime legend, an entertainment icon and one of the most beloved television personalities of our time," said Leslie Moonves, the chief executive of the CBS Network who also added that the network plans to do a special television show in Barker's honor, but Barker will not be saying a special goodbye to his viewers saying he will say what he always does at the end of every show; "Help control the pet population. Have your pets spayed or neutered."

"From the bottom of my heart, I thank the television viewers, because they have made it possible for me to earn a living for 50 years doing something that I thoroughly enjoy. They have invited me into their homes daily for a half a century," said Barker.