On Wednesday, 28 October BP was advised by Australia’s independent government National Offshore Petroleum Safety and Environment Management Authority (NOPSEMA) that it will require addition time to examine the company's envirionment plan in relation to BP's proposal to commence exploration drilling in Australia's Great Australian Bight. The company’s $605 million exploration programme will determine whether the area, which is home to a vast array of marine life including endangered species, has commercially recoverable volumes of petroleum (oil, gas or condensate).

At the closest point to the Australian coast the drilling area will be located approximately 395km west of Port Lincoln and 340km southwest of Ceduna in South Australia. The drilling area has water depths ranging from between 1000 and 2500 metres.

NOPSEMA has advised that the extra time is required due to the complex nature of the proposal as well as the intense public interest.

The infrastructure and jobs from the initial exploration programme have already made a significant economic contribution to South Australia. The discovery of hydrocarbons such as oil or gas, would further boost the Australian economy and the discovery of oil or gas is important considering people’s reliance on them in their daily lives such as for heat, light and transport.

As with any exploration there is a risk of an oil spill. In the event of a spill the probability of oil making it to shore would depend on the direction the oil drifts and this can vary due to seasonal differences in current and wind direction. The Great Australian Bight is very remote and is known for its rough seas and extreme weather conditions.

The Great Australian Bight is also home to a vast array of marine life which includes threatened and endangered species. The waters of the Great Australian Bight are a nursery for the Australian sea lion colonies to raise pups and is one of the largest breeding grounds for the southern right whales. The Bight is also home to the great white shark, sperm, blue and beaked whales as well as orcas and southern Bluefin tuna.

Four exploitation wells will be established and drilling is expected to commence in late 2016.