BP has applied for permission to build exploratory wells in Australia’s Great Barrier Reef. The proposed plan aims to drill four wells, beginning with the first dig in 2016. This deep sea drilling has the potential to cause an oil spill which would be catastrophic for the environment. BP is awaiting approval from the National Offshore Petroleum Safety and Environment Management Authority, who should announce their decision in the coming month. 

The Great Barrier Reef is made of a diverse landscape, including nearly 3000 reefs and houses many one of a kind marine species. It is the largest coral reef eco system and is a registered World Heritage Area. BP’s drilling of the reef can damage up to 250,000 square kilometers of ocean. With this, there is a 70% to 80% chance that the oil will reach land, and 424g per square meter would seep into the environment. It would also impact Australia's $1.2 billion tourism industry and the $442 million fishing industry. 

BP states that if there was to be an oil spill it would take 35 days to close a leak. However, given BP’s precedent with such issues, this does not seem viable. Whilst digging in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010 BP encountered an oil leak. It took 87 days to address, 11 people died and the natural landscape was severely damaged. BP’s drilling proposal for the Great Barrier Reef reveals that if the oil spill was similar to that of the spill in Mexico, it would take 157 days to complete the plug. In a case of a severe oil spill in the Great Barrier Reef, it would take 19 days for 805 metric tones of oil to effect 100km of the coastline. The Wilderness Society states that the BP’s plan to address oil spills does not address the issue in a sufficient time frame and the damage done would be devastating, if not irreversible.

The National Offshore Petroleum Safety and Environment Management Authority has the ability to accept or deny the proposal, they cannot advise or amend proceedings. Bp submitted the proposal earlier this year and are expecting a response in November 2015.