Brazil beat Australia 2-0 in a competitive encounter that got better as the game progressed in Munich, Sunday.

The game had started slowly as Australia, playing defensively, kept many players near the edge of their penalty area. But a goal by Adriano four minutes after half time changed that and made for a more attacking game.



After nine minutes Vince Grella set the tone for the first half when he raked his studs on Ronaldo's calf. While the referee did not give a caution for this bad foul, four of the five cautions issued by German referee Markus Merk came in the first half. Two went to Australian players.

Brazil were closed down quickly and suffered 25 fouls in the game. When they had the ball Australia, who wore a dark blue strip instead of their traditional yellow and green, used their ball possession effectively and got forward with neat passes. 

The Brazilians in contrast did not start well. On an elusive run into the penalty box Ronaldinho had used fine skill to elude his markers but then trod on the ball and fell over. Ronaldo then had an embarrassing moment when he created a good opening to shoot only to kick at fresh air.

And when Roberto Carlos had broken free unmarked the attacking left-sided defender jumped up and down in frustration when Ronaldo over hit his pass. 

Brazil's goal came four minutes after half time.

Ronaldo rolled the ball across the edge of the box to Adriano. The striker moved quickly to his left and passed a firm shot through Scott Chipperfield's legs. The ball hugged the grass and beat Mark Schwarzer's out-stretched left hand.

Australia in an effort to get an equaliser replaced a defender with an attacker. But they found it hard to get past Brazil's defence; Ze Roberto made two key tackles to stop Marco Bresciano and Harry Kewell.

On 56 minutes Harry Kewell missed Australia's best chance. The ball came loose to his feet and the goal beckoned. But Dida dived at his feet and Kewell skied his effort over the bar.

While Australia made good forward moves Brazil attacked into the space they left behind. Kaka flicked a Ronaldinho corner on to the crossbar and in injury time missed wide when he only had Schwarzer to beat.

The exciting second half was rounded off when on 89 minutes Robinho, who was a lively substitute for Ronaldo, hit a powerful shot off the inside of Schwarzer's left post. Fred tapped in the rebound.

The result meant Brazil qualified for the knock-out stage of the Fifa World Cup while Australia would need to get a least a draw against Croatia in their final Group F game to extend their stay in Germany.