Mount Stromlo, Canberra — 
Earlier today, Capital Punishment, the Canberra based 50km and 100km mountain bike race, was unofficially won by Shaun Lewis in the 100km distance in about four hours. Official results are set to be announced tomorrow at cyclenation.com.au because of a minor computer glitch. In a parallel youth competition run as part of the event, Zoe Cuthbert won the girls 10 and 11 year old three lap event.

Last year's event was marred by rain, but this year the weather was ideal with no precipitation. First time on site, paramedics Theodora Magar and Chris Runcher reported no serious injuries, only a few minor cuts and bruises with the exception of one dislocated collar bone. They were backed up by other medical personnel located on the course. Events started at 7:00 a.m. at Sparrow Hill for the 100km race and and on through Canberra's downtown where the 50km started before going to the Black Mountain Reserve and the National Arboretum and ending at Mount Stromlo.

Capital Punishment was part of a series of seven races organized by CycleNation which between 6,000 and 8,000 total riders participated in. There were a variety of cyclists of different skill levels including former Australian national team members, casual cyclists like Michael Courtney and Tracey Kloos alongside youth cyclists like Zoe Cuthbert. 40 year old Courtney traveled from Sydney to ride, finishing the 50km race in about 4 hours, 30 minutes but not setting a personal best. He enjoys riding in Canberra and finds the pain of going up the hills worth the ride down. Kloos also participated in the 50km race as a member of the 20 strong Newcastle women's based club, Newy Cogheads's Team Torque Talk. In her second time in the race, she did not set a personal best.

Of the youth event, Cuthbert's father Paul said his first place finishing daughter regularly participated in mountain biking events, with the sport being her primary one though she does play netball casually. The eleven year old was celebrating her birthday on race day.

Organizer Theo Grobler said most cyclists would be done by 3:00 p.m. Canberra Time (5:00 UTC) and that some would need the eight hours to complete the 100km course.

Another 50km and 100km race, the Convict 100, will be held in Australia in the Sydney area next weekend on Saturday with a start time of 6:00 a.m. Sydney Time (20:00 UTC).