The US-based Cessna Aircraft Company, a subsidiary of Textron Inc., is expected to statically display seven of its aircraft and a mock-up of its latest business jet large cabin concept at the 47th International Paris Air Show, dubbed the LCC.

The seven aircraft expected to be on display are the Citation CJ2+, Citation Encore+, Citation XLS, and Citation Sovereign business jets, a Grand Caravan, a 206 Stationair, and a 172 Skyhawk single engine piston aircraft.

Cessna Chairman, President and CEO Jack Pelton said of the exhibit, “There is so much synergy now with other companies under the Textron corporate banner – companies like Bell Helicopter and Textron Systems – that we felt it made sense for us to return as an exhibitor to the Paris Air Show... We are particularly excited to have our large cabin mockup as the highlight of our exhibit."

Cessna originally announced plans for a new large model of business jet for the Citation range at last year's annual National Business Aviation Association meeting, and the idea has been in development since, culminating in the new large cabin concept design. The mock-up at the Paris Air Show includes a large galley, seating for nine passengers, a toilet and a dummy flight deck.

Cessna claim the new design, which outsizes their previous large cabin and long-range business jets, would "set a new standard for performance, cabin comfort, passenger amenities and environmental friendliness," if launched.

Cessna refuse to release details such as exact internal design specifications and manufacturers of avionics and engines unless the new model actually enters production. Cessna Senior Vice President of Sales &amp; Marketing Roger Whyte told reporters that preliminary wind tunnel testing had "fully met... expectations" and that they had "received extremely positive reaction to the performance parameters as well the cabin design of the proposed aircraft from our customer base", although he warned that there are still a number of processes to be completed before Cessna actually decide whether or not to launch the new model.