Chris Hughton has been appointed permanent manager of English football club Newcastle United, having previously served as its temporary caretaker manager since the start of the season. His permanent contract was to run until the end of the 2010–11 season.

The 50 year old former Tottenham Hotspur and Republic of Ireland defender joined the club in 2008 when he was appointed Newcastle United assistant manager by Kevin Keegan, with the club at the time in the top flight of English football, the Premier League. Hughton then became temporary Newcastle United caretaker manager twice last season, as managers came and went, and at the end of the season, the club were ultimately relegated to the second tier, the Football League Championship. In his third spell as caretaker, he had been in charge of the club since the start of the season, and had guided the team to the top of the table, and for his efforts was awarded the Football League Championship Manager of the Month twice, for August and September.

Hughton stated of his appointment:

 
"It's a very proud day for me to be named as the manager of this magnificent football club. I will be doing everything in my power to get the club back into the Premier League at the first time of asking. Having the unequivocal backing of the players has helped me enormously and I would also like to thank Colin Calderwood, Paul Barron and the rest of the backroom staff who have been tremendously supportive to me this season."
 

According to Sky Sports, many Newcastle fans had 'made no secret of their desire' to see a return to the club as manager of Alan Shearer after relegation and over the summer break. Shearer, the former club captain, was hired on a short term 8 game contract at the end of last season, but could not steer the club away from relegation. As the new season progressed, Hughton remained caretaker, and ten days prior to Hughton's appointment, Shearer had said:

 
"I can't revolve my life around that any more because I have other things going on. If it happens, it happens, and if it doesn't, it doesn't...And at the moment Chris Hughton is doing a great job."
 

The announcement came on the same day as it announced that the club would be putting the naming rights of the club stadium St James' Park up for offers next season, and that owner Mike Ashley was taking the club off the market for a second time.