Researchers say that two men claiming to be 'Bigfoot' hunters in Georgia in the United States and who claimed to have found the remains of the mythical creature earlier this month, are part of an elaborate hoax.

Bigfoot hunters Matt Whitton and Rick Dyer stated on August 15, 2008 that they were hunting for the creature in the forests of northeastern Georgia when they came across the supposed corpse of one of the legendary cryptids. After finding the body, they claimed to have taken it home where they stored it in a freezer.

A group called Searching For Bigfoot Inc. stated that they paid the hunters "an undisclosed sum" of money for all publicity related to the alleged carcass, but when researchers Tom Biscardi and Robert Schmalzbach went to examine the remains of the thawing body, they began to discover that it was nothing more than a plastic Halloween costume.

"[Within the first hour of thawing] a break appeared up near the feet area. ... I observed the foot which looked unnatural, reached in and confirmed it was a rubber foot," said one of the researchers for Searching For Bigfoot Inc., Steve Kull, who also examined the alleged corpse.

The researchers then attempted to reclaim their money and went to the hotel Whitton and Dyer were staying in, only to find the rooms empty, and the two men nowhere to be found.

"[We are a] victim of this series of deceptions," added Kell who also said the group is "seeking justice".

Whitton and Dyer claimed they had photos, video and DNA evidence to support their claim, but only one photo portraying a blurred black figure in the distance in the forest was provided. 

The TimesOnline reports that the joke fell flat with Jeffrey Turner, who as Chief of Police in Clayton County, Georgia, put Mr Whitton on medical leave when he was shot in the wrist as he tried to foil a robbery earlier this summer. "As soon as we saw it was a hoax, I filed the paperwork to terminate his employment," said Chief Turner. “He’s disgraced himself, he’s an embarrassment to the Clayton County Police Department, his credibility and integrity as an officer is gone, and I have no use for him,” he declared.