The Colombian Constitutional Court has approved an amendment to allow presidential re-election, which was not possible before under the country's 1991 Constitution. The decision was made public by Manuel José Cepeda, president of the Constitutional Court, on Wednesday at 18:45 (23:45 UTC). Cepeda said: "The court has decided to declare as reasonable within the Constitution the legislative act allowing the re-election of the president of the republic".

The complete decision consists of 18 sentences, the result of 62 votes regarding 18 lawsuits which had been presented to the Court against the presidential re-election project, a reform approved in December 2004 by the Colombian Congress. 

This constitutional reform has given the current president, Álvaro Uribe Vélez, the possibility to enter the presidential election in May 2006 and makes possible for the Colombian people to re-elect him if they so choose. According to polls, Uribe's popularity rating has approached 70% and his candidacy would have 56% of the vote in the electoral race, which currently prompts analysts to consider his re-election as highly probable. 

For the majority of the nine judges who make up the Constitutional Court, the amendment that reforms the Constitution doesn't violate its spirit and is in agreement with it, besides having been approved with the required debates and accurate legislative procedures, and the Colombian Congress did have the faculty to process and approve the reform. The Court's deliberations lasted four and a half weeks, a time during which most of the political activity of the country, facing legislative elections in March and a presidential race in May, was practically paralyzed.

Nevertheless, in order for the re-election project to be fully implemented, the "Electoral Guarantees Law" must be approved. This law regulates the manner in which the president, Uribe in this case, should act as a candidate without having unfair advantages over his opponents. The reform project was approved in June but, according to the Solicitor General's concept, made public in early September, it should be returned to Congress for modifications because it has "serious gaps, deficiencies and essential contradictions which infringe the Constitution". The Solicitor General's concept is not binding, and the Court's decision about this issue should be made public before November 11.