The rescue of the Chilean miners trapped in the San José Mine in Copiapó, codenamed Operación San Lorenzo (San Lorenzo Operation), began on Tuesday night, at around 20:00 local time (23:00 UTC).

Florencio Ávalos was the first miner to be rescued, at 00:12 local time (03:12 UTC) on Wednesday. He was wearing a shirt signed by all his fellow miners. "The first miner is already with us. We saw it all, him hugging his wife Monica and his son Byron," said President Piñera shortly after the first rescue. "We still have a long journey."

"This will be recorded on every single Chilean heart forever," Piñera added. "I hope the miners' hope stay with us, just like the [February] earthquake victims' [hope] and what the earthquake took off. We know that the disasters unite us all."

All the 33 miners were rescued. The last miner, Luis Urzúa, was rescued at 21:55 Chile time (00:55 UTC). "It is a pleasure to be Chilean, [I'm] proud," said Luis Urzúa to President Piñera. "In honour of the miners, their families, the rescuers [...] let's sing our national anthem. Viva Chile Mierda!," said Piñera. Urzúa thanked Mining Minister Golborne and the First Lady Cecilia Morel for "fighting for their lives." "I'm proud of my fellow miners," Urzúa added.

Six rescuers, including a miner and a paramedic, descended to the miners' shelter using the Fénix 3 capsule which was specially constructed for the rescue. They performed check-ups and talk with the miners before taking them back to the surface. The rescuers still don't leave the mine.

The Fénix 3 capsules are 3.95 metres in height and weigh about 460 kilograms. They have an armour, an oxygen tube and a microphone. The occupants helmets contain an intercom to keep them in contact with the rescue team on the surface.

President of Chile Piñera assisted to the rescue. Bolivian President Evo Morales could not attend Carlos Mamani's rescue. Mamani is the only Bolivian miner in the group.

A mass for the miners was conducted at 18:00 local time (21:00 UTC). The rescue takes between 15 and 20 minutes for each miner.

On Tuesday, Mayor of Copiapó Maglio Cicardini announced that the municipal schools in the city will have no classes this Wednesday "to transform the rescue of the Atacama's 33 in a familiar meeting," Radio Cooperativa reported.

"The miners will be taken to the Copiapó Regional Hospital for medical checkup, where they will have to stay for 48 hours," Health Minister Mañalich said to Televisión Nacional de Chile.

Celebrations are taking place in several Chilean cities. In Santiago de Chile, people gathered in one of the most important points of the city, Plaza Italia. In Pichilemu, tens of cars are passing over its most important streets. In Copiapó, people gathered in its main square to assist a massive concert.

=