While being interrogated by the Delhi Police today, South Africa cricketer Herschelle Gibbs admitted that his former captain Hansie Cronje asked him to underperform at the Pepsi Cup in 2000. Gibbs also named Derek Crookes among three others who, he said, were involved in the affair. 

"Gibbs had come and the interrogation took place in a manner in which we wanted. The investigation can now move forward," Joint Commissioner of Crime Branch Ranjit Narayan said at a press conference following the two hour long session. 

Gibbs maintained that he did not know whether or not any Indian players were involved in the scandal, although he did reveal that the entire South African team had received an offer in 1996, which they refused. Gibbs also refrained from revealing whether or not he actually accepted any money to underperform, saying only that he was following his late skipper's wishes. Narayan, on his part, indicated that the investigation could now "move forward", following the filling-in of "loopholes and gaps" as a result of today's interrogation. The Delhi Police have also taken samples of Gibbs' voice to compare it with the telephone recordings that they have recovered. The cops also stated that Gibbs had been cooperative, and that he "might be needed again". 

Transcript of a telephone conversation between (late) South African Captain Hansie Cronje and bookie Sanjay Chawla:

Hansie Cronje: Ok. I have spoken. Yes, everything is fine. I've spoken to Gibbs, and to Williams and Strydom.

Sanjay Chawla: Already ok. And how many runs for Gibbs?

Hansie Cronje: Less than 20.

Sanjay Chawla: Less than 20?

Hansie Cronje: Ya.

Sanjay Chawla: Ok. So, everything is according to plan. You have to score at least 250.

Hansie Cronje: Ya.

Sanjay Chawla: And if you score 270, then it is off.

Hansie Cronje: Ok. And financially the guys want 25. They want 25 each.

Sanjay Chawla: All guys. Ok.

Hansie Cronje: So, that's 75 for these three. And what can you pay me? I do not know how much you pay me?

Sanjay Chawla: You say.

Hansie Cronje: If you give me... 140 for everybody.

Sanjay Chawla: Ok. 140 all together?

Hansie Cronje: Ya.

Sanjay Chawla: Ok. That's fine. And we will sort something out for the previous ones as well.

Hansie Cronje: All right, we are on.