A man who allegedly cut his girlfriend's throat, slashed the face of the woman that came to her defense, and cut his own wrists and stomach before fleeing, has been found after a 3-1/2 hour search. 23-year-old Aaron Noel Camey Valenzuela was apparently discovered hiding in a crate by cameraman George Rodrique.

“There were all these boxes of firewood, and as I was sitting there looking around, I saw the lid coming slowly up and a guy who looked to be on the phone. I had to look twice because I didn’t think it was happening because there were a lot of police officers standing around.” Rodrique said. He promptly reported his sighting to the police, who apparently contacted Valenzuela on his cell phone before taking him into custody. They were unable to find weapons of any kind on his person or anywhere on Sholan Farms, the city-owned apple orchard where the suspect was discovered.

The police arrived at the United Solutions plastics factory in Leominster, Massachusetts, around 7 a.m. Sunday morning responding to a 911 call from another worker at the plant. "An employee cut his girlfriend's throat. He cut his own throat and he's cutting his wrists right now. He's got a knife cutting his wrist," the caller allegedly told the dispatcher. By the time they arrived, Valenzuela had already fled the scene.

The victims were given immediate care, as the girlfriend and her unidentified coworker were rushed to separate local hospitals. The police have stated that the girlfriend was taken into surgery for her injuries, and is currently in stable condition. Neither victim has been identified.

After the suspect's discovery and subsequent surrender to police, he was also taken to Leominster Hospital, where he is currently recuperating from his self-inflicted wounds. Identified by police by his consulate ID card from Guatemala, Valenzuela was allegedly deported from the U.S. four years ago, but re-entered the country illegally at an undetermined date.

Reports differ as to whether the suspect and the woman whose throat he slashed were in a relationship at the time of the incident, or whether they had separated. Police have said that there was a domestic dispute between the couple at the plant about three weeks ago, which was handled by the company's human resource department. Apparently the two were moved to different parts of the plant after the dispute.

Valenzuela is currently being held on $25,000 bail, and is charged with two counts of assault and battery with a dangerous weapon and attempt to murder. His arraignment is scheduled for Monday, February 1st.