The Duke of York, Prince Andrew, has arrived in New Zealand today (UTC+13) to a flurry of fans who gathered in the bad weather at Wellington's international airport. His royal highness was met by a Honorary Aide-de-camp to the Governor-General, Wing-Commander John Cummings, RNZAF

The Duke has no plans for today but has a busy schedule the next few days while in New Zealand. His royal highness has plans to dine at Government house.

On the following day he will receive a briefing on trade links between New Zealand Trade and Enterprise and the United Kingdom Trade and Investment. HRH, Colonel-in-Chief, will then visit the Royal New Zealand Army Logistic Regiment at Trentham Military Camp , and attend the 30th anniversary celebrations of the Queen Elizabeth II National Trust, at Lake Pounui, Wairarapa.

On Saturday he will represent Queen Elizabeth II at a ceremony at the Te Papiouru Marae in Rotorua to commemorate the bravery of Lance Sergeant Haane Manahi, where he will present Lance Sergeant Manahi's grand niece Donna Maria Grant and his iwi, Te Arawa; a sword from the collection of George VI, a letter from the Queen, New Zealand's Head of State, and an altar cloth. On Sunday he will visit Mokoia Island, then later rededicate the Auckland War Memorial Museum Cenotaph.

On Monday, HRH will be briefed by the Guild of Air Pilots and Air Navigators, visit the visit the Devonport Naval Base, receiving a Guard of Honour and HRH will visit the Navy’s Bridge Simulator before having lunch with Rear Admiral David Ledson, the chief of the navy. Later that day HRH will attend the official opening of new Digital Operating Theatres at Mercy Ascot Hospital, and attend a reception at the Northern Club hosted by the British New Zealand Trade Council.

On HRH will speak at the Opportunity UK: Trade and Investment Summit, He will then join the Governor-General for a function at Government House to celebrate International Down’s Syndrome Day. Later he will visit McDell Marine boatbuilders at Glendene, and in the evening attend the Opportunity UK: Trade and Investment Summit gala charity dinner at Sky City.

The Duke of York will leave New Zealand on Thursday 22nd March.