Citing violations of its policy regarding "Marine mammal items", eBay terminated an online listing on Monday by the town of Cape St. George, Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada, for a 40 ft (12 m) sperm whale carcass reportedly beached upon its shores about a week prior.

With an initial asking price of 99 cents, bidding for the carcass reportedly rose to C$238.03 within 15 bids. Reports variously state the final price of the whale, prior to the removal of the listing from the auction site on Monday at about 2:30pm, was C$2,025 or C$2,075. Listed in eBay's "really weird" category, the carcass was considered by eBay to be an example of "items made from marine mammals regardless of when the product was made", which are prohibited as per site rules.

Following a council meeting on Sunday in the town of 950 residents, Cape St. George's mayor, Peter Fenwick, put the whale up on the auction site in a bid to have it removed from the town's premises, citing a lack of cooperation from provincial and federal government officials on the matter. "It's your problem, you solve it", Fenwick recounted to The Globe and Mail (TGaM) as the response he received from them. Apart from eBay, Kijiji was also suggested as another avenue by which to sell the carcass.

Fenwick told CTV News, several years prior another sperm whale measuring 15 ft was beached in the area, but disappeared without incident, an act Fenwick attributed to be the work of Fisheries and Oceans Canada. "This time", he remarked, "the authorities have told us that it's our whale, it's our responsibility to get rid of it."

On putting the carcass for sale, Fenwick remarked, "We knew we had to do something with it and this seemed to be the least expensive way of disposing of it." In a news release, Fenwick highlighted a possible use for the carcass, particularly its bones. "The 40 foot sperm whale will make a spectacular exhibit once the fat and muscle is removed, and the town is asking museums and other organizations that could use a whale skeleton to contact the town for further details." 

On retaining the whale himself, Fenwick stated, "As a town we would dearly love to keep the whale and put it on exhibit in the town but the cost of such a venture would be hard to justify." Fenwick told TGaM the whale was "in half decent shape". "This one looks like it died very recently and hasn’t decomposed much", which Fenwick suggested elsewhere was due to the whale's present location, partially submerged in near-freezing water. However, Fenwick noted its close proximity to a residential area, saying homeowners who lived there were "very interested in seeing the whale gone."

eBay was not the only organization who barred the sale from taking place. "We also got threatened by the federal department of the environment, and told to pull the ad off or they would prosecute us", said Fenwick on the opposition he said he received from Environment Canada, which viewed the sale as contravening a federal act designed to protect endangered species. "I received a call from the federal department of the environment saying that you're not allowed to sell any parts of sperm whales, even if they’re dead." he added. "So I said, 'Oh that's very good, I’m glad to hear that, now can you send somebody over here to get rid of it for us?'" Fenwick's request was met with a negative response from Environment Canada.

"They've got to sort it out somehow. The uncertainty means it just sort of sits there and rots." Once decomposition sets in, Fenwick remarked the carcass would become a "real nuisance". "I don't know if you've ever seen a whale that’s been rotting on the beach for a couple of months — actually sometimes you can’t see it for the clouds of flies around it — but you can smell it for about a mile", he added.

On finding alternate means to dispose of the carcass, Wayne Ledwell, a member of Newfoundland's Whale Release and Strandings, suggested the whale be towed out to a remote area. "They need to do that right away, when they come in and they’re fresh," said Ledwell. "No one wants to go touch them ... everything becomes gooey and slippery and you can't stand up on the whale and it gets on your boots and you can’t get the smell off and then you go home and the dog rolls in it and you get it in your kitchen and you curse the whales, and you curse the government and ... it becomes a mess." Fenwick said they'd considered the idea, enlisting a local fisherman who, however, judged his engine too small for the job. 

Previously, blue whale carcasses washed ashore in the towns of Trout River and Rocky Harbour, located about 150 km further north, and were taken by Royal Ontario Museum for preservation of the skeletons. Fenwick suggested the sperm whale carcass in his town might also meet a similar fate, as the sperm whale's status as the largest toothed whale might prove to be a drawing attraction for such a facility.

Regarding what he plans to do next with the carcass, Fenwick said "If we're not allowed to sell it, we're willing to drop our 99 cent price down to a zero." He said he hoped some eBay bidder stays interested in the whale. "We'll be glad to talk to them about giving them the whale. We’re hoping that's not illegal." He also said he hoped the publicity from the town's predicament, which garnered national attention, and its unusual means of finding a solution, would draw in someone interested in taking the whale off his hands at their own expense. 

Should the whale fall under new ownership, Fenwick advised it be moved away from the town to a beach devoid of people, and the blubber left as food for seagulls, insects, and other predators. He estimated "It'll probably take a year or so to get down to the skeleton." As monetary gain was reportedly not what the town cared about, Fenwick was willing to offer the carcass for free, though one report noted money raised from the listing could have gone towards the building of a skate park.

The listing on eBay, as put up by Fenwick, read: