The Eleventh International Human Rights Documentary Film Festival Docudays UA, in Kyiv, Ukraine, ended on Friday.

The Awards Ceremony was held in the Red Hall of the Kyiv Cinema House. There were 36 documentary films competing for prizes in three festival programs: DOCU/Short, DOCU/Right, DOCU/Life. There were also special prizes from Students’ Jury, Audience Award, and the Andriy Matrosov Award from Docudays UA Organizing Committee.

The special guest of the Awards Ceremony was a symbol of the festival — Nikita Mikhalko. He is featured on the official posters of the festival. Nikita was on Maidan Nezalezhnosti on February 19, in the morning. The picture of him was chosen by the organizers as the "image that would deliver the spirit of our [Docudays UA] festival to the best of its possible might". The piece of movie where he is taking tangerines from a woman that morning has become the official trailer of the festival. The episode is featured in the opening film of the festival Euromaidan: Rough Cut. Thus Nikita and his burning glasses have become the symbols of the festival. The organizers decided to find out who the symbol of the festival was, and if he was alive. They have started looking for him and luckily, they were able to ask him to come as a special guest of the Awards Ceremony. Nikita had the opportunity to say on the microphone, "Slava Ukraini" (Glory to Ukraine), and have the whole hall hollering back at him, "Heroiam Slava" (Glory to the Heroes).

The Eleventh Docudays UA Winners are (in the order of awarding):

;Audience Award
The Audience Award went to Joanna, directed by Aneta Kopacz, Poland, 2013.

;Student's Jury Award
The Students' Jury Award went to Tucker and the Fox, directed by Arash Lahooti, Iran, 2013, awarded for "an optimistic story about a life-long passion".

;DOCU/Short
Joanna, directed by Aneta Kopacz, Poland, 2013, received special mention. The jury chose it for "filmmaker's ability to be both intimate and discreet"

Mom, directed by Lidia Sheinina, Russia, 2013, received special mention for "ability of the filmmaker to find in the closed world of one apartment 'things that quicken the heart'".

The main prize went to Liza, Go Home!, directed by Oksana Buraja, Lithuania, Estonia, 2012. The film was awarded for "filmmaker's poetic sensibility and respect for other humans’ secrets".

Andrei Zagdansky, a Ukrainian-American, was awarding. The other two members of the jury were Victoria Belopolskaya of Russia, and Stéphanie Lamorré of France.

;DOCU/Right 
No Fire Zone: The Killing Fields of Sri Lanka, directed by Callum Macrae, UK, 2013, received special mention. The film was awarded for "the powerful use of video advocacy in global awareness-raising and opinion-shaping regarding the mass murders of civilians belonging to a Tamil minority in Sri Lanka".

Captain and His Pirate, directed by Andy Wolff, Belgium, Germany, 2012, received special mention for "exceptional courage of the film crew and an outstanding presentation of international piracy phenomenon as presented by a victim and his prison guard".

The main prize went to Mother’s Dream, directed by Valerie Gudenus, Switzerland, 2013. The jury awarded the film for "a highly sensitive, empathic, and artistic presentation of a controversial and socially resonant human rights problem, affecting the fates of women and children globally".

Natalka Zubar of Ukraine announced the winners. The other two members of the jury were Andrzej Poczobut of Belarus, and Oksana Sarkisova of Hungary.

;DOCU/Life
Crepuscule, directed by Valentyn Vasyanovych, Ukraine, 2014, received special mention. The film was awarded for "a visually and emotionally superior depiction of human resilience, sensibility, and interdependence".

Night Labor, directed by David Redmon and Ashley Sabin, USA, Canada, 2013, received special mention for "a provocative, atypical, allegorical description of industrial work and personal freedom".

The main prize went to The Last Limousine, directed by Daria Khlestkina, Russia, 2014, awarded for "a dignified, compassionate portrayal of state-factory workers lost in transition, but not in humanity". The jury mentioned the film was perfectly casted.

The whole jury was present: Boris Mitić of Serbia, Chris McDonald of Canada, and Simone Baumann of Germany.

;Andriy Matrosov Award from the Docudays UA Organizing Committee
The Andrey Matrosove Award went to A Diary of a Journey, directed by Piotr Stasik, Poland, 2013.

 picture select|width=500px
| People are gathering. 
| A queue is forming. 
| The Red Hall of the Kyiv Cinema House. 
| The hosts of the event are the journalists Andrii Saichuk and Nataliia Humeniuk. 
| Nataliia Humeniuk, translator and photographer. 
|Nikita Mikhalko is featured on the festival poster and trailer. 
| The festival gift shop team is giving the Audience Award. 
| The film Joanna (director Aneta Kopacz, Poland, 2013) is awarded. 
| The representative of Aneta Kopacz is taking the prize. 
| The Students' Jury: Viktor Kylymar, Oleksandr Shkrabak, Halia Vasylenko, Petro Vyalkov, Tetyana Chesalova. 
| Tucker and the Fox (director Arash Lahooti, Iran, 2013) is awarded. 
| The googles would help him to film even more. 
| The Festival diploma. 
| The cobblestone from Maidan Nezalezhnosti is the main festival trophy. 
| The trophy goes to Iran. 
| Andrei Zagdansky (Ukraine) announces the winners for DOCU/Short. 
| The first special mention: Joanna (Aneta Kopacz, Poland, 2013). 
| The representative of the director. 
| The 2nd special mention: Mom (director Lidia Sheinina, Russia, 2013). 
| Main prize: Liza, Go Home! (director Oksana Buraja, Lithuania, Estonia, 2012). 
| The journalist, director Natalka Zubar. 
| Special mention: No Fire Zone: The Killing Fields of Sri Lanka (director Callum Macrae, UK, 2013) Anthem of Ukraine. 
| Special mention: Captain and His Pirate (director Andy Wolff, Belgium, Germany, 2012). 
| Main prize: Mother’s Dream (director Valerie Gudenus, Switzerland, 2013). 
| Ambassador of Switzerland to Ukraine Christian Schoenenberger is taking the prize. 
| Chris McDonald (Canada), Simone Baumann (Germany). 
| Special mention: Crepuscule (director Valentyn Vasyanovych, Ukraine, 2014). 
| Boris Mitić (Serbia), Simone Baumann. 
| Special mention: Night Labor (directors David Redmon and Ashley Sabin, USA, Canada, 2013). 
| Main prize: The Last Limousine (director Daria Khlestkina, Russia, 2014). 
| The Last Limousine. 
| Daria Khlestkina. 
| The cobblestone from Maidan Nezalezhnosti is taken to Moscow. 
| Andriy Matrosov Award from the Organizing Committee. 
| A Diary of a Journey (director Piotr Stasik, Poland, 2013) is awarded. 
 

After the ceremony The Last Limousine, the winning film of DOCU/Life program, was screened.

The festival was first held in 2003, called at that time Docudays on Human Rights. In 2006 the festival was accepted as part of the international Human Rights Film Network at the International Documentary Film Festival Amsterdam. It is usually held during the last week of March.