In a match fraught with nervous tension England won 2-0 against Trinidad and Tobago in Nuremburg, Thursday, from two goals in the last seven minutes of play. 

England's win meant they were guaranteed a place in the knock-out round of the Fifa World Cup in Germany this year as they had taken six points from two games in Group B.

It was when Wayne Rooney and Aaron Lennon made an entrance as substitutes in the 58th minute that England kicked into gear. Lennon came on in place of England's fourth defender as Sven-Göran Eriksson told his men to go for the Socca Warrior's jugular.



Until that moment Trinidad and Tobago though not sealed-tight against England's attacks were more able to counter-attack due to the English side's slow play and lack of movement. 

The Caribbean side had looked especially strong on set plays and long balls floated towards England's goal.

England's goalkeeper Paul Robinson perhaps best showed his side's nerves: he missed three crosses. On two of these occasions Leo Beenhakker's side were inches from taking the lead. In the most dramatic of them, John Terry had to volley a ball off the goalline to stop England going into half-time a goal down to a Stern John header.

The Caribbean threat lessened with the substitutions as constant pressure meant Trinidad and Tobago attacker Cornel Glen when he did break was often unassisted. While England's threat increased with Rooney in the centre, and with Lennon and later substitute Stuart Downing who both tested the Socca Warriors from wide positions.

With 62 per cent of ball possession the story of England's game was simply the missed opportunities. Trinidad and Tobago was massively overpowered 23 shots to seven.

On 43 minutes Peter Crouch had the sort of miss that was so spectacular it may make highlight reels. Unmarked in the centre of the goal it might have been easier to get the ball on target than to skew the volley so far wide.

He was not the only culprit. Michael Owen, before he was substituted with Rooney, had missed two in more ordinary ways. 

Lampard had peppered Shaka Hislop's goal with shots all game. Three on 74, 77, and 78 minutes - but none troubled the West Ham keeper. The Fifa man of the match in the first England game may not want to remember this one. 

On the 83 minute mark England captain David Beckham crossed to the 6' 7" Crouch at the far post. This time he rose confidently above Brent Sancho and powered a header into the top left corner. Trinidad and Tobago were finally solved.

For a side that had all game struggled to find the killer instinct Steven Gerrard's late goal was well received. On the edge of the penalty area he cut left and fired left-footed into the top left corner. The win now looked comfortable.