Scoring five goals in 22:44, Manchester United came back from a 0–2 deficit at the half to run out comfortable 5–2 winners over Tottenham Saturday in English Premier League action. With the victory, United moved three points clear of second-place Liverpool, with United having a game-in-hand. Liverpool earned a 3–1 victory over Hull City earlier in the day, allowing the Reds to hold the top position in the table for about two hours, before United reclaimed the top spot. Third-place Chelsea earned a narrow victory and fourth-place Arsenal is off until Sunday.

At Old Trafford, Darren Bent opened the scoring in the 29th minute and Luka Modrić added another three minutes later to put visitors two up over the champions. In the second half, United turned the tables quickly, scoring four goals in the first 25 minutes of the half. Cristiano Ronaldo put United on the board after Spurs keeper Heurelho Gomes unfairly challenged Michael Carrick inside the box. Wayne Rooney equalised for United in the 67th minute and added an assist a minute later when Ronaldo hit a diving header past Gomes. Rooney added an assurance goal three minutes later, before Dimitar Berbatov closed the scoring in the 79th minute after Gomes allowed a shot to slip out of his reach.

For Liverpool, Dirk Kuyt scored the winning goal in the 63rd minute to give the Reds a much needed three points in their quest for the Premier League title. Xabi Alonso opened the scoring for Liverpool, giving the visitors the lead for good. After Kuyt's goal, Hull pulled a goal back on a smash by Geovanni. Kuyt later added another in the 89 minute. The 3–1 victory game Liverpool a precious three points, enough to go ahead of United in the table on goal difference. The lead was short as United regained the spot with their victory in the late game.

Chelsea's narrow victory come when Salomon Kalou converted a Frank Lampard cross in the 55th minute. West Ham United had a chance to equalise with the Blues, but Chelsea keeper Petr Čech saved a Mark Noble penalty kick. The penalty was awarded when Kalou fouled Hérita Ilunga. Chelsea is now six points behind United and three back of Liverpool.

Fifth-place Aston Villa drew 1–1 at Bolton and sixth-place Everton fell 1–2 at home to Manchester City. Ashley Young scored for the Villians just before half-time and Tamir Cohen equalised on sixty minutes for Bolton. For Everton, Dan Gosling 90th minute goal would not be enough as goals from Robinho and Stephen Ireland put City over the top for good. The point for Villa put them two points clear of Everton. The victory moved Manchester City into the 9th spot in the table.

In other action, Fulham earned a 1–0 victory over Stoke City, enough to bump them up to the seventh spot in the table. West Bromwich Albion gained a convincing 3–0 victory over Sunderland, with goals from Jonas Olsson, Chris Brunt and Juan Carlos Menseguez.

Two games will be played Sunday as Arsenal hosts Middlesbrough in the afternoon and Blackburn Rovers hosts Wigan in the night game. One game will be played on Monday as Newcastle hosts Portsmouth.