On Friday, a coalition of civil rights and environmental leaders sent a letter to the Department of Justice, urging an investigation into ExxonMobil
 to uncover weather they have been deliberately obscuring information on climate change for years. Such action has recently received the endorsement of several democratic presidential candidates. 

Reports allege that in the 1990s under a new chairman and chief executive, Lee R. Raymond, Exxon engaged in a disinformation campaign by funding and supporting right leaning organisations that perpetuated information that was in contradiction to the scientific consensus on climate change. Such reports also allege that Exxon made a concerted effort to block American participation in an international climate treaty, The Kyoto Protocol.

Exxon has denied suppressing climate research and publicly acknowledged the need to address the problem. The organization stated that they “have remained committed to pursuing climate change research and have worked closely alongside other top scientists on the U.N.’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change since its inception in 1988 – a collaboration that continues to this day.”

The movement started gaining momentum last month when Inside Climate News and The Los Angeles Times that Exxon scientists knew decades ago as early as 1977 of the dangers posed by climate change, but nerveless actively sowed the seeds of doubt as to the nature of anthological climate change. 

"Given the damage that has already occurred from climate change -- particularly in the poorest communities of our nation and our planet -- and that will certainly occur going forward, these revelations should be viewed with the utmost apprehension," they wrote. "They are reminiscent -- though potentially much greater in scale -- than similar revelations about the tobacco industry."

A spokesman for the Justice Department, Wyn Hornbuckle, said the department was reviewing the letter from the advocacy groups, but had no additional comment on it. 

The idea of DOJ investigation is not without precedent. Indeed anti- racketeering laws successfully used to prosecute tobacco companies for misleading the public about the dangers of cigarettes, those pressuring the DOJ are intending to employ similar such strategies.