Quoting Theodore Roosevelt, who said that we must do “the greatest good, for the greatest number,” Harold A. Schaitberger, of The International Association of Fire Fighters, (IIAF), announced that the his organization was joining the Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership, (TRCP). 

In a press release, Schaitberger, who is IIAF General President, said, "I’m proud to announce that, along with a number of our sister unions in the Building Trades, the Machinists and others, we, (the IIAF), are joining the Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership (TRCP), and will be rolling out its programs and benefits for your enjoyment over the coming weeks."

Praising the TRCP as, "an organization that focuses its efforts solely on conserving, maintaining and enhancing access to land and water available for Americans to enjoy their interests in hunting, fishing and shooting," Schaitberger explained that the IIAF is also, working with (the TRCP) to extend this program to our Canadian members." 

Schaitberger explained that the TRCO, "is founded in the spirit of Theodore Roosevelt, the 26th president of the United States, and an avid outdoorsman who believed, “There can be no greater issue than that of conservation in this country..."

Schaitberger also shared plans for his member workers unions, in the IIAF will "initiate a union-focused sportsman club that will have its own magazine, web site, radio show (in addition to the television shows already in production) and affinity programs to promote union-made products and equipment and offer discount merchandise and trips." 

The IIAF General President indicated that this state "greatest good for the greatest number" statement, "is a guiding principle of TRCP. It is a guiding principle of this IAFF. And together, we hope it will do some good for you as you enjoy the outdoors."
The IIAF web site is located at http://www.iiaf.org

The TRCP is a non-profit organization who's web site says is, "driven by a Board of Directors and a Policy Council made up of leaders from many of the country’s top hunting, fishing and conservation groups. We have a national focus on access and conservation issues affecting hunting and angling and are supported by our own nationwide network of over 90,000 sportsmen and women and more than 1,400 affiliated local and state-level clubs and organizations, that themselves represent nine million Americans."