George Zimmerman, the Florida neighborhood watch captain who faces second-degree murder charges for shooting and killing Trayvon Martin, took the stand Friday in a Florida courtroom for a bond hearing. While on stand, Zimmerman apologized to the parents of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin. 

"I am sorry for the loss of your son. I did not know how old he was. I thought he was a little bit younger than I am. I did not know if he was armed or not," Zimmerman said addressing Martin's family directly.

Judge Kenneth Lester granted Zimmerman with a US$150,000 bond, about €100,000, at the conclusion of the hearing. Zimmerman will also have to wear a GPS monitoring device. Mark O’Mara, Zimmerman's attorney, said it will take some time to collect bail and that he expects Zimmerman to be released from custody within a few days. 

Prosecutor Bernie De La Rionda argued Zimmerman should not have been allowed bond or if he was given bond that it should have been set at US$1 million, which is about €750,000. 

A photograph obtained by ABC News could give credibility to Zimmerman's story. The photo is of Zimmerman’s head, covered in blood. Zimmerman claims Martin had pummeled his head into the concrete during their fight. Robert Zimmerman, a former magistrate and the accused's father, testified in regards to Zimmerman’s injuries after Martin was killed.

"His face was swollen quite a bit," Robert Zimmerman said. "There was a protective cover over his nose, his lip was cut and there were two vertical gashes on the back of his head."

During the hearing, O’Mara questioned State Attorney’s Investigator, Dale Gilbreath, who confessed that no clear evidence has been found that proves Zimmerman attacked Martin first. 



Zimmerman’s family insisted that Zimmerman was not a violent person. 

"He's absolutely not a violent person or a threat to the community," said Zimmerman’s wife, Shellie. 

Zimmerman’s wife and parents were fearful of their safety and testified through phone at the hearing. Shellie asked the court keep Zimmerman’s address secret once he is released for fear of his safety.