The Florida Gators defeated the Oklahoma Sooners by a score of 24 to 14 last night's FedEx BCS National Championship Game to win the Division I title of the National Collegiate Athletic Association's American college football league. Florida, ranked Number 1 in the nation, were led by Heisman Trophy-winning quarterback Tim Tebow. "I promised the guys that I would go out and play with all my heart. I was so motivated tonight," said Tebow. They were matched up against a Number 2 ranked Oklahoma team with a powerful offense, including this year's Heisman Trophy winner, quarterback Sam Bradford. The game took place at a sold-out Dolphin Stadium in Miami, as a stadium record 78,468 fans attended the match.

Both team's defensed dominated each others' offenses in the first half, forcing a 7 to 7 score when halftime came against a Florida offense that averaged 54 points a game and an Oklahoma offense that averaged 40 points. In total, both team's defenses had 4 interceptions, 2 for Florida and 2 for Oklahoma. Florida's defense stopped Oklahoma twice during a goal line stand, stopping them on a fourth-down rush once, and a forced interception out of the hands of Oklahoma wide receiver Juaquin Iglesias by Florida's Ahmad Black.

On the offensive side of the ball, Florida was led by Tebow. Although throwing 2 interceptions, Tebow completed 18 put of 30 passes for 2 touchdowns, as well as rushed 22 times for over 100 yards. Oklahoma quarterback Sam Bradford helped the Sooners offense through the air, completing 26 out of 41 passes for 256 yards and 2 passing touchdowns, but also throwing two interceptions. In the fourth quarter, Tebow completed a key 4-yard touchdown pass to wide receiver David Nelson, making the score 24 to 14 and putting the game out of reach for Oklahoma.

Some college fans believe that Florida did not rightly win the national championship, though. Fans of the Utah Utes believed that their undefeated team should have at least earned a spot in the game against Oklahoma or Florida's one-loss teams. Fans of the USC Trojans and the Texas Longhorns also believed that the teams could have earned a spot in the game, due to their similar records. On the matter, Florida head coach Urban Meyer said "This is one of the best teams in college football history. Let someone else worry about all that. The Gators are No.1." 

On the game, Oklahoma head coach Bob Stoops commented "In the end, I'll be glad to try again next year. If that's the biggest burden I have to bear in my life, I'm a pretty lucky guy." Tim Tebow, in a post-game interview, said "I was already motivated for a national championship game. But you know, there was some trash talking going on, and it just gets me going during the game." In a losing effort, Sam Bradford commented "In the first half, we had opportunities that we didn't take advantage of. In the second half, when we needed to make the plays, we just couldn't do it."