Tera Myers, a former actress in pornographic films, has left her position as a science teacher at Parkway North High School in St. Louis County, Missouri after her past was revealed by a student. This marks the second such controversy involving Myers, also known under the names Tericka Dye and the stage name Rikki Anderson. She was suspended by Kentucky's McCracken County Public Schools system in 2006 after her career in pornography was made public.

Don Senti, interim superintendent of the district, said Myers was on administrative leave from her position at the school at her own request. Myers' request, granted "out of respect for her privacy and that of her family," came after a student inquired about her pornographic career. The district said Myers passed background checks before being hired as a teacher in 2007, but it did not know about her past until the student found out about it online, because her career in the pornography industry was legal. A Parkway representative said the Kentucky school at which Myers last worked was contacted in 2007 to verify her references, but no mention of her suspension or stint in pornography was provided.

Myers will continue to be paid until the end of the semester, at which time she is to leave the Parkway School District. "We're surprised, very surprised," said Parkway spokesperson Paul Tandy. "At the same time we feel for her and her family. We do believe she has tried to move on with her life ... Unfortunately, even though it happened fifteen years ago, [the video] is still there." According to Tandy, Dye "was concerned about the impact it would have in the building," and, on March 4, informed the school's principal of her past after being asked by the student. Myers also was the coach of the girls' volleyball at Parkway North High School.

Myers previously taught at Reidland High School in Paducah, Kentucky, and was suspended in 2006 after a student there discovered her pornographic career. That May, Myers defended herself, saying, "Anybody who has been in my classroom could tell you how much I love teaching and how much I love these students, and that should be what matters more than anything in my past." Known as Tericka Dye at the time, she protested against her dismissal and even appeared on the "Dr. Phil" talk show.

Myers said she became involved in the adult industry after working as an impoverished exotic dancer in California.