Police have arrested three more men in connection with the failed terror attacks of the past few days on London and Glasgow bringing the total number of arrests to eight.

Sky News has revealed the identity of one of the practising doctors arrested yesterday as Dr Mohammed Asha, who trained in Jordan before coming to the UK to practise. Police are continuing house raids throughout the country, in Paisley, Merseyside and Staffordshire. One suspect, badly burned after the attack on Glasgow airport, is currently receiving treatment at the Royal Alexandra Hospital.

The eighth suspect was arrested abroad this evening, but police are refusing to reveal details of the country in which the arrest took place. It has been revealed that five of those arrested are qualified doctors, practising in the UK, three of those in the Royal Alexandra Hospital. 
 
The UK's terror threat warning level remains "critical", meaning that an attack could be imminent. Heavy security is in evidence at airports and public transport centres, with many airports asking passengers not to bring vehicles close to the terminal buildings. This evening, at around 1900 BST, Stansted Airport, Essex. was closed for a short time following the discovery of a suspicious bag. The owner of the bag was arrested while the airport closed its doors, not allowing passengers into or out of it. The BBC reports that, by 2035, the airport had been fully re-opened. The owner of the bag remains under arrest, but not for terrorism related offences.

Strathclyde Police is continuing its appeal for any details of earlier movements of the green Jeep Cherokee with registration L808 RDT, which was driven into the terminal building at Glasgow International Airport.

The Metropolitan Police has now taken over the inquiry, with suspects held in Scotland to be moved to London. 
 
 
 PhoneContact|Anti-Terrorist Hotline Number 
:For providing information to authorities about terrorist activities, contact the anti-terrorism hotline at: 0800 789 321