Two goals from Bastian Schweinsteiger and his assist on a Petit own goal won bronze for Germany in the 2006 FIFA World Cup, Saturday.



The excitement began in the second half when the hosts who had captain Michael Ballack missing through injury got three goals in 20 minutes from the right boot of the 21-year-old Bayern Munich left midfielder. 

Schweinsteiger was dropped by coach Jurgen Klinsmann from his semi-final line up against Italy, a game Germany lost while Schweinsteiger was on the field late in extra time, won the third-place playoff game on his own with two individual efforts from 30 yards. 

Twice Schweinsteiger cut in from the left and fired right-footed at the net; twice he beat Ricardo. The first beat the Portuguese with pace over his head; the second swerved away to the keeper's left.

An own goal from a free kick 30 yards out from the left side of the penalty box netted what proved to be the game-winning goal. Driven low across goal it connected with Petit's knee and Ricardo could not stop it going in.

Portugal were strong in possession but lacked punch in attack; unable to convert 57 per cent possession into goals. Pauleta had two clear chances from 15 yards but both times hit tame shots that did not trouble Oliver Kahn. 

Kahn, FIFA player of the tournament at the 2002 World Cup, captained the side on his first appearance for Germany at the 2006 World Cup. After substitutions the host nation had used all outfield players in the squad in the competition.

Portugal were to get a consolation goal with help of substitute Luis Figo, who made his 127th and final cap for the Port shirts.

The veteran right winger almost immediately provided the precise distribution needed to unlock the German defence. A cross from the ring wing on 75 minutes found fellow substitute Nuno Gomes at the far post, who dived in for the consolation goal.

Ronaldo jeers

In the match the Portuguese left winger Christiano Ronaldo was booed and jeered each time he got the ball by a section of the 52'000 crowd. 

During the tournament the player had gained a reputation for being a showman but a bad sportsman guilty foul simulation (diving). The allegations made by players and media were denied by Ronaldo and his coach Luiz Felipe Scholari.

However it seemed to affect his performance. By the end of the match Ronaldo's famous multiple step-overs were gone although he remained dangerous with three out of four shots on target.

FIFA Young Player of the Tournament 

German striker Lukas Podolski before the match was named by FIFA as Young Player of the Tournament. He scored three goals during Germany's run to the bronze.

Oliver Kahn retires

Oliver Kahn, 37, captained the German team for the occasion and stated after the game that he would retire from international football. Kahn was popular with the German fans in the arena and cheered by the Stuttgart crowd for almost every touch.