The survivors from the recent 7.0 magnitude earthquake in Haiti are now facing increasing insecurity from human traffickers and convicts escaped from collapsed prisons, officials have cautioned, even as aid is flowing into the country. The acting head of the UN's Haitian mission, meanwhile, says that that full reconstruction could take several decades. As many as 200,000 people were killed by the tremors, which struck on January 12, and 1.5 million people have been left without homes.

Anthony Banbury, the deputy head of the UN mission in the earthquake-ravaged country, commented to the Agence France-Presse (AFP) news agency that survivors queuing for aid sometimes turned violent. He commented that while the aid is vital for the country, "it can be a source of insecurity because it attracts big crowds and there can be disorder around food distribution."

"[It is] absolutely necessary that we get enough food, enough water, enough shelter for the people, and enough security. I don't think any of us are anywhere near being close to being satisfied, because so much more needs to be done," he added. "[We must] do things smart, as well as fast, and that's a big challenge for us now."

The Haitian national police chief, Mario Andresol, remarked that electricity blackouts resulted in "bandits [...] taking advantage to harass and rape women and young girls under the tents," adding that 7,000 inmates of prisons escaped after the quake. "It took us five years to apprehend them. Today they are running wild."

Further exacerbating the security situation was that the Haitian police force was largely crippled by the disaster, with hundreds of policemen either killed or missing.

"At night, people take things. But I don't have a problem. I don't have anything to steal." said one local resident, Omen Cola, to AFP.

Child trafficking, meanwhile, is also an issue; it had been a chronic problem even before the earthquake. The Red Cross has started to register orphaned children, and temporarily sending some to orphanages for shelter, according to a senior advisor for the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), Bo Viktor Nylund.

UNICEF press official Roshan Khadivi told the Xinhua news agency on Wednesday that "we are taking photos and filling in forms to get the children's full details on file. Experience has shown us that there is at least one family member left usually. UNICEF does not believe in institutionalization in orphanages. Children need to be connected with their communities." Khadivi noted that considering adoption would only be done if the child's parents are not found after several months.

Sixty orphaned children, meanwhile, were transported earlier by plane to Germany, where they are to be adopted; six of them were hospitalised for fatigue and dehydration.

=