This morning, Hamas leaders announced that they had an "outright majority" in the 132-seat Palestinian Legislative Council. "Hamas has won more than 70 seats in Gaza and the West Bank, which gives it more than 50 percent of the vote," said Ismail Haniyeh, a leader of Hamas.

In order for Hamas to have a majority, they needed at least 67 seats. Ismail Haniya, a senior Hamas leader, said they "expected to win at least 70 seats."

Just hours after the statement, and based on results that Hamas supplied from representatives at polling stations, Prime Minister, Ahmed Qurei of Fatah and his cabinet submitted their resignations. "This is the choice of the people. It should be respected. If it's true, then the president should ask Hamas to form a new government," said Qurei. "For me, personally, I sent my resignation."

Although Qurei submitted his resignation, the party has not officially conceded defeat, but do acknowledge the claim ahead of official results.

Fatah has been in control of the Palestinian government for decades now, and on Wednesday, exit polls released after the polls closed, had shown that the Fatah party had a narrow lead in the elections.

However preliminary results based on 95% of the votes cast give Hamas' Change and Reform Party 76 seats, leaving Fatah with 43 seats. The remaining 13 seats went to several minor parties and independents.

Turnout was generally high, over 70% in all regions except Jerusalem, where turnout was less than 50%. Palestine's Central Elections Commission has stated that Israeli authorities prevented electoral arrangements in Jerusalem from meeting "the required standards for free, fair and transparent elections".

Mushir al-Masri, who won the election said in regards to Israel, "negotiations with Israel are not on our agenda." He also stated, "recognizing Israel is not on the agenda either now."

Hamas also stated that it has no intentions of disarming and says, "Hamas does not plan to change even one word," in the groups charter, which calls for the destruction of the Israeli political system.

Mahmoud Abbas, the current President of the Palestinian Authority, was not affected by the election results but has said that he, "might resign if unable to pursue a peace policy." Abbas has been the President of the Palestinian Authority for only a year.

Abbas is also expected to ask Hamas to form the new government.

=