An unknown person or persons wrote graffiti and vandalized the exterior of homes belonging to six members of the United States congressional delegation from the state of Minnesota late last Monday night or early Tuesday morning.

According to the Star Tribune, Laurie Coleman, wife of U.S. Senator Norm Coleman, found the words "U R A CRIMINAL, RESIGN OR ELSE! PSALM 2" written on the family's garage. The word "SCUM" was also written in three places on another side of the garage. Psalm 2 is a biblical reference.

The homes of senator Amy Klobuchar, and U.S. representatives Michele Bachmann, Keith Ellison, John Kline and Jim Ramstad were also targeted by vandals. Ellison's house was the only one that sustained damage.


Peter Panos, St. Paul Police spokesman, told the Star Tribune that threatening message in the graffiti were cause for concern.

"We're looking at this as an actual threat," he told the Star Tribune. "We're taking it quite seriously. Vandalism threats are pretty rare in this city."

Bachmann, Coleman, Kline and Ramstad are Republicans. Klobuchar and Ellison are Democrats. All live in the Minneapolis-Saint Paul metropolitan area. Reps. Collin Peterson and Jim Oberstar, who live in out state Minnesota, along with Rep. Betty McCollum — who lives in a condominium, did not receive vandalism to their homes. 
Senate candidates Al Franken and Dean Barkley, who are running against Coleman in the November elections, condemned the vandalism.


"There's no place for this unacceptable behavior in our political process, or in our communities," Franken's campaign told the St. Paul Pioneer Press. The paper said that the Franken campaign office was the victim of graffiti attacks including the words "Crazy" and "No New Taxes."

Federal and local authorities are still investigating these incidents, as well as similar incidents that took place in Missouri.

Over the weekend, a Minnesota hair salon was targeted. Police say it may have been a copycat vandal, though the salon is said to be patronized by Norm Coleman.