Savarino Construction Services Corp. has proposed a $7 million hotel project at the Forest and Elmwood Avenue intersection, according to The Buffalo News. The proposal calls for a 5-story, 45,000 square-foot 80-room hotel with underground parking for at least 50 vehicles, and 4,500 square-feet of retail space on the lower level.

Hans Mobius, the owner of the five properties to be purchased in the plan (1109 to 1121 Elmwood), reportedly signed a contract with Savarino to assemble the development. 

"We saw a huge opportunity to bring something to the Elmwood Village that will make sense and bring a service that's currently not available," said Eva Hassett, vice president of Savarino. "Elmwood is such a wonderful place to eat, shop, walk and spend time. We believe this project will add to that vibrant environment."

Some business owners in the area see it differently. Wikinews interviewed 2 of the 4 owners whose business's would be demolished if the development goes through.


Nancy Pollina, of Don Apparel at 1119 Elmwood, who found out about the development only yesterday, said she is "utterly" against the proposal. Her apparel shop has stood at the same location for nearly 14 years. She has volunteered in the community, and helped create several gardens around bus shelters in the city, and served on Forever Elmwood Board for six years as head of Beautification. Patty Morris co-owns Don Apparel with Pollina.

"To say this is a good looking project, I want to say the emperor has no clothes. This [project] does not take into consideration the needs of the college students. I have been told by college students, these shops here, are the reason they leave the campus," said Mrs. Pollina. 

Buffalo State College is 500-feet from the intersection.

Michael Faust, the owner of Mondo Video said, "Well, I do not really want to get kicked out of here. The landlord was very open, and the deal he made with me when I moved in here was 'the rent is cheap and I [the landlord] will not fix anything and that will not change.'" Faust said he first learned of the development plan, "about 48 hours ago. I found out on Tuesday when the Buffalo News called and asked for my opinion on this." Faust has not said if he will make plans to relocate. "We have to see if this [house] is going to get knocked down first," said Faust.

An "informational" meeting, where citizens can voice opinions and learn about the proposal, will be held on Tuesday February 21, 2006 at 5:00pm (eastern), at the Burchfield-Penney Art Center Gallery at Buffalo State College, Rockwell Hall.

Executive director of Forever Elmwood Corporation, Justin P. Azzarella would not comment on whether or not the organization supports the development, saying, "you will just have to come to the meeting."

Forever Elmwood Corp. is designed to preserve and protect the unique and historic nature of Elmwood Avenue and its surrounding neighborhoods and encourage neighborhood commercial revitalization. The organization was founded in 1994.


=