Hundreds of citizens gathered at Lincoln Memorial last weekend, demanding an end to ivory sales worldwide. Advocates then marched to the White House in Washington DC, holding signs and banners in an effort to save wild elephants from extinction. The event on Saturday was organised by Elephants DC, a non-profit organisation committed to the wellbeing of African and Asian elephants. 

According to the organisation, an estimated 100 elephants are illegally poached every day, equalling to about 35,000 killed every year for their tusks and other parts. At this rate, it is possible that wild elephants could face extinction in 10 years. 
 
Jen Samuel, president of Elephants DC, said there’s no excuse for the ivory trade, and that the rally was an opportunity to make the message clear. Pennsylvania State Representative, Madeleine Dean, spoke at the event and earlier stressed to Elephants DC just how big the issue is. “The sale of ivory is an environmental problem that is not going to be solved by one person, or one party, or one country," she said, "It is an issue that we as a global community must come together to fix.” 

Gabonese Ambassador, Michael Moussa-Adamo, told National Geographic about the importance of preserving nature as it is. “We have to make it so our children, our children’s children, get the best of what nature has blessed us with,” he says, “The entire world should feel responsible to protect the environment.”

The march was the third of it's kind in Washington DC. As part of the Global March for Elephants and Rhinos, this makes the city one of 130 worldwide fighting for the same cause. The ban goes alongside a published declaration of demands that include the cessation of all industries and retails involved, alongside stricter crime enforcement under the United Nations.

The wildlife trafficking industry is becoming a serious issue in East Africa. Last June the Tanzanian government announced a 60 per cent loss to the country's elephants population in the past five years. 

An article conducted by National Geographic believes poverty and weak law enforcement are to blame. It reported that locals and poor villages are relying on poaching for income and making up to hundreds and thousands of dollars through China's illegal trade market, where a pair of ivory chopsticks can sell for one grand alone.