Actress Hunter Tylo is reported to have rejoined the cast of The Bold and the Beautiful, in the latest chapter of a rocky relationship between Tylo and the casting office. The news was first broken by entertainment magazine Soap Opera Weekly. 

Tylo played the role of Dr. Taylor Hamilton Forrester from 1990 until 2002, when she was killed off by villainess Sheila Carter, played by Kimberlin Brown. Taylor's love affair with Ridge Forrester (played by Ronn Moss), and the ensuing triangle with Brooke Logan (played by Katherine Kelly Lang), helped the then-fledgling soap move higher in the ratings in the early to mid-1990s. According to Soap Opera Weekly, history has been rewritten so that Taylor, in reality, did not die from her gunshot wounds back in October 2002. Her return is tied in with a 1994 storyline in which Taylor was held captive by Moroccan prince Omar (played by Indian actor Kabir Bedi). Both Tylo and Bedi are first seen on Monday, May 2.

The magazine states that she has been on the set of the soap opera at CBS Television City since March 11. For a while, she didn't even tell her husband, former Guiding Light actor Michael Tylo, where she was really going. She told him that she was just going on "a lot of auditions," and that if she told sooner than she did, the news might slip out accidentally. Her husband currently teaches a class at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas and she couldn't afford any accidental hints that his students could have picked up on.

This is not the first time Tylo has rejoined the series. She left in highly publicized disputes most recently in 2000 and 2001, due to a lack of story for her character. Her most publicized departure, however, was in 1996; Tylo was scheduled to join the cast of Melrose Place and was fired when Melrose s producer Aaron Spelling found out she was pregnant. She took him to court and won after nearly a year of messy legal battles. All three times she was allowed to return to the show more or less without comment.

With more than 300 million viewers in nearly 100 countries, The Bold and the Beautiful is claimed to be the most-watched television series in the world.

See image 
Hunter Tylo book cover photo