I'll Have Another won the 138th Kentucky Derby as he slipped past Bodemeister near the end of the race to take first place Saturday at Churchill Downs with Dullahan following them for third place.

Mexican jockey Mario Gutierrez rode I'll Have Another, who was (13-1 odds), past Bodemeister (6-1 odds) by 1 1/2 lengths. The finishing time was 2:01 4/5. Previously, the winning horse had a victory at the Santa Anita Derby at Santa Anita Park.

Bodemeister and Trinniberg sprinted out of the gate and were the early leaders throughout the race with Bodemeister leading for the majority of the race. Experts had thought that Trinniberg could cause some horses and riders to sprint with him at the beginning of the race. 

 Union Rags, who was the favorite, finished sixth in the field. Prior to the race, experts had ranked I'll Have Another third. 

According to NBC, the owner, trainer and jockey all won their first Kentucky Derby. The race was broadcast by the NBC network in the United States. The crowd at Churchill Downs for the 2012 race was 165,307.



THE HORSES

According to the official Kentucky Derby website, the horses that competed this year in the Kentucky Derby by starting position include :

1. Daddy Long Legs was the winner of the UAE Derby at Meydan. He is owned by the partnership of Derrick Smith, Mrs. John Magnier, and Michael Tabor. Daddy Long Legs is trained by Aidan O'Brien and the jockey was Colm O'Donoghue.

2. Optimizer is trained by D. Wayne Lukas, owned by tobbacoist Brad Kelley of Bluegrass Hall LLC and ridden by Jon Court.

3. Winner of the Florida Derby at Gulfstream Park, Take Charge Indy, is owned by Chuck and Maribeth Sandford. He is trained by Patrick Byrne and his jockey was Calvin Borel. Borel had winning horses in 2009 and 2010.

4. Expert's top pick, Union Rags, is owned by Chadds Ford Stable. He is trained by Michael Matz and was ridden by Julien Leparoux.

5. Dullahan is owned by Donegal Racing. His trainer is Dale Romans and his jockey was Kent Desormeaux. He raced the fastest time at the 2012 Blue Grass Stakes.

6. Bodemeister, winner of the Arkansas Derby at Oaklawn Park, is trained by Bob Baffert. He is owned by Zayat Stables in Cairo and his jockey was Mike Smith.

7. Rousing Sermon is owned by Larry and Marianne Williams, Tree Top Ranches. His jockey was Jose Lezcano and he is trained by Jerry Hollendorfer.

8. Creative Cause is owned by Heinz Steinmann and trained by Mike Harrington. His jockey was be Joel Rosario. 

9. Trinniberg is trained by Bisnath Parboo from Tranidad and his son, Shivananda Parhboo, is the owner of Shivananda Racing and the horse. The jockey was Willie Martinez (jockey).

10. Daddy Nose Best was the winner of the Sunland Derby at Sunland Park and The El Camino Real Derby at Golden Gate. He is owned by Cathy and Bob Zollars, trained by Steve Asmussen, who is also training Sabercat, and his jockey was Garrett Gomez.

11. Alpha is a female owned by Godolphin in Dubai. She is trained by Kiaran McLaughlin and will be ridden by Rajiv Maragh.

12. Winner of Tampa Bay Derby, Prospective, is owned by John C. Oxley. He is trained by Mark Casse and his jockey is Luis Contreras.

13. Went The Day Well is owned by Team Valor International and is trained by H. Graham Motion. His jockey was John Velazquez. This team won last year's race with Animal Kingdom 

14. Hansen was the winner of the Breeder's Cup Juvenile race at Churchill in November. He is owned by Dr. Kendall Hansen and Sky Chai Racing. His trainer is Mike Maker and he is ridden by Ramon Dominguez.

15. Trainer Todd Pletcher, who has previously won a Kentucky Derby, has two horses in the race. One is Gemologist. He is owned by WinStar Farm LLC. His jockey is Javier Castellano.

16. The other is El Padrino, owned by Let's Go Stable, trained by Pletcher and ridden by Rafael Bejarano.

17. Done Talking, winner of the Illinois Derby at Hawthorne, is owned by Skeedattle Stables. He is trained by Hamilton Smith and his jockey was Sheldon Russell.

18. Son of Kentucky Derby 2006 runner-up Bluegrass Cat, Sabercat, is owned by Winchell Thoroughbreds. He is trained by Steve Asmussen and ridden by Corey Nakatani.

19. I'll Have Another was the winner of the Santa Anita Derby at Santa Anita Park. He is owned by financier J. Paul Reddam, trained by Doug O'Neill and ridden by jockey is Mario Gutierrez.

20. Liaison is owned by Arnold Zetcher and trained by Bob Baffert. He was ridden by Martin Garcia.