In ice hockey, the Chicago Blackhawks scored two goals just 28 seconds apart late in the second period to take a 2–0 series lead over the Philadelphia Flyers in Game 2 of the 2010 Stanley Cup Finals Monday night in Chicago, United States.

Marián Hossa scored Chicago's first goal at the 17:09 mark of the second period on slap shot deep in the Blackhawk's defensive zone. Left-wingers Troy Brouwer and Patrick Sharp provided assists on the goal.

Ben Eager scored the game-winner at the 17:37 mark of the second period on a feed from Dustin Byfuglien. Eager scored his goal on a wrist shot from 38 feet.

Philadelphia's lone goal came in the third period, when Simon Gagné scored at the 5:20 mark. Centers Mike Richards and Jeff Carter provides assists on the goal.

Unlike the first game, this one was marked by impressive defensive efforts from both sides. Chicago goalkeeper Antti Niemi made 32 saves, earning the Player-of-the-Game honor from the National Hockey League. His counterpart, Michael Leighton who was pulled in Game 1 after giving up five goals, collected 24 saves.

"It's unbelievable feeling how the people react," Niemi said after the game, according to the Associated Press. "Defense was the key."

Flyers coach Peter Laviolette also acknowledged Niemi, who collected 14 of his 32 saves in the third period.

"I thought their goaltender played extremely well in the third period. We had more than enough looks to tie up that game," Laviolette said, according to the Associated Press.

After a fairly clean game on Saturday, Game 2 had a decided edge, which resulted in ten penalties. Neither team capitalized on their power play opportunities. At the 17:27 mark of the first period, three players were sent off: Chicago's Game 1 hero Tomáš Kopecký for roughing, with Philadelphia's Richards and Daniel Carcillo going to the box of elbowing and unsportsmanlike conduct, respectively.

Chicago and Philadelphia continue the best-of-seven series on Wednesday night at Philadelphia's Wachovia Center. The Stanley Cup will determine the 2009–10 National Hockey League champion after the top 16 teams earned the right to compete in the postseason. The NHL has 30 teams in the United States and Canada and attracts many international players.