Aboriginal protesters and their supporters marched on Queensland Police headquarters late last month, calling for justice for Shaun Coolwell. He is the latest fatality in an ongoing epidemic of Aboriginal deaths in custody, according to the ‘Redflag’ newspaper.

Coolwell, 34, died after being restrained by officers who had been called to an address at Kingston, south of Brisbane, before midday on October 2nd.
The event prompted the Queensland’s corruption watchdog to overlook a police investigation into the incident. 

Indigenous rights activist Glenice Croft described the death as an “international tragedy”, as protesters rallied at Parliament House and then marched down Roma Street to Police Headquarters in Brisbane.

Protestors wore special shirts and carried banners as they vocalised their anger at the mistreatment of indigenous people in Australia. Numerous participants spoke about their experience with police as emotions ran high. 

Shaun Coolwells death adds to the growing list of deaths in custody this year alone. 

In September this year, 23 year-old Junior Togatuki was found dead in his Goulburn jail prison cell, more than a month after his sentence had expired.

According to the Sydney Morning Herald, his Australian visa had been revoked, and as his release date passed, his isolation cell transitioned seamlessly into de facto immigration detention. Battling schizophrenia and anxiety, his mental health deteriorated as he waited for a deportation date for New Zealand, which he'd left when he was four years old.

At 6am on September 12 – seven years after he entered the NSW prison system as a juvenile for armed robbery and assault – Junior was found dead in his cell. His left wrist had been slashed open with a prison-issued razor blade, and in his blood he had written messages of love to his family.

With deaths in custody rising throughout the past decade these events have caused outrage in indigenous and non-indigenous communities a like. Community leaders across Australia have called for an end to the problem as pressure for another royal commission into the matter mounts.