During the last week, through Friday, there have been several incidents of firing at the India–Pakistan border, causing deaths on both sides: members of India's Border Security Force (BSF) and Pakistani citizens, suspected by India to be . Both India and Pakistan have accused the opposite side of initiating the ceasefire violation.

On Sunday, July 20, a citizen of Pakistan was killed in a cross-border firing by India's BSF. The place was described as located in Charwa and Harpal sector near Sialkot by Pakistani press, and Karole in Hiranagar sector of Kathua district by Indian press. On Tuesday, Indian press reported two Indian Army troopers were injured and one killed in a firing at the Line of Control in Akhnoor sector of Jammu district; reportedly, there was an infiltration into India happening. On Wednesday, Pakistani press reported a Nangal Village resident, Iftikhar, was shot by India's BSF across the border, at the district Shakar Garh control centre, Narowal. Indian army said there was an infiltration attempt late Wednesday in Tarkundi area of Poonch district. There was yet another firing on Friday evening, in Balakote part of Mendhar sector, Poonch district; reportedly, there were no deaths or property damage.

According to Pakistani Rangers, the firing from India was unprovoked in both Sunday and Wednesday incidents; Punjab Rangers in the first incident, and Chenab Rangers in the second incident, retaliated with intention to stop the firing. After each incident, the Rangers have demanded a flag meeting to resolve tensions.

According to Pakistani Dunya News, seven people were injured during the Sunday incident, including a woman and a child, who were immediately brought to Combined Military Hospital, Sialkot. Pakistani The Express Tribune reported there were three women and a child injured. Firing reportedly continued for several hours starting late Saturday night, creating panic in the nearby population.

According to DNA India, there were five ceasefire violations in June. According to The New Indian Express, there were previous incidents on July 20, July 18, July 17, July 16, July 12, and July 1, making the incident on Friday the seventh ceasefire violation in July.

On Sunday and Wednesday, the heavy firing has also reportedly killed livestock.