With the recent announcement of the Australian Government allocating $100 million to the prevention of domestic violence, comes a string of new ideas and technologies being discussed to prevent domestic violence occurring as well as help those who are victim to it. 

Last month, the Federal Australian Government announced that it would allocate $12 million to trial technologies that would aim to keep women who are victims of domestic violence safe. 
One of the new technologies that has been proposed to the ACT government by the manufacturing company 3M are GPS tracking devices that are fitted to offenders as well as the victims of domestic violence. 
This tracking system is already being used in Portugal, Uruguay and is particularly successful in Spain where over 90% of those involved find the program to be successful in monitoring domestic violence. 

Another way the Australian government is addressing these issues, is allowing for a $60,000 grant for what is called the ‘D3 Digital Challenge’. This is where South Australian entrepreneurs and digital developers will compete for the grant by creating and submitting their own applications aimed to help and support women affected by domestic violence. 
“The Digital Challenge is an open process designed to encourage and reward innovation that will have a positive, practical effect on those who are at risk of domestic violence,” says Federal Social Services Minister Christian Porter.

Caitlin Roper, the Campaign Manager at Collective Shout, an Australian grassroots organisation against the objectifying and sexualisation of women says of the $100 million allocated, ‘I think domestic violence organisations and women’s refuges- organisations that work with women on the ground- need to be receiving much of this funding, and determining how this money should be used. It’s not good enough to have calls to domestic violence helplines going unanswered, or for women seeking help to be turned away from refuges because of a lack of resources and funding.’

Although there is still some developing and organisation that needs to be done, the discussion surrounding these ideas is a step forward that Australia needs in the fight against it’s rising domestic violence statistics. Conversation and awareness is the start, and the government’s grants as a result of this is a promising look into Australia’s future.