In a departure from its usual neutrality, the International Committee of the Red Cross today issued a statement condemning Myanmar's military State Peace and Development Council for human rights abuses.

The Geneva, Switzerland-based International Committee of the Red Cross, or ICRC, said the Myanmar junta is systematically causing thousands of people to suffer, especially along the border with Thailand, where government soldiers raid villages, destroy food supplies, force people from their homes and commit acts of violence, including murder and child abuse. Detainees, the ICRC said, were being forced to work on government projects or act as porters for the military.


The statement comes amidst other developments in Myanmar, where 51 detainees who were arrested in a crackdown on democracy demonstrations last month were released on Wednesday. 

In Beijing yesterday, U.S. State Department officials held talks with representatives of Myanmar's military regime, with the U.S. issuing a "very pointed and very direct" demand that the junta release detained democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi.

ICRC President Jakob Kellenberger said in a press release: "Despite repeated entreaties by the ICRC, the [Myanmar] authorities have consistently refused to enter into a serious discussion of these abuses with a view to putting a stop to them."


"The continuing deadlock with the authorities has led the ICRC to take the exceptional step of making its concerns public," Kellenberger continued. "The organization uses confidential and bilateral dialog as its preferred means of achieving results. However, this presupposes that parties to a conflict are willing to enter into a serious discussion and take into account the ICRC's recommendations. This has not been the case with the authorities of Myanmar and that is why the ICRC has decided to speak out publicly."

In March this year, the ICRC closed its offices in Yangon, Myanmar's former capital, after the organization's staff were prevented from visiting prisons or conducting independent field operations in the border areas.

The condemnation of Myanmar by the ICRC is the strongest since it denounced the 1994 Rwandan Genocide.

=