A unanimously passed United Nations Security Council resolution imposing sanctions on Iran has been dismissed by Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad as a "piece of paper." Ahmadinejad said that it is in "the best interest of the West" to have a "nuclear Iran" and that Iran will not stop enriching uranium.

 "It is a piece of torn paper ... by which they aim to scare Iranians ... It is in the Westerners' interests to live with a nuclear Iran," said Ahmadinejad.

Ahmadinejad also goes on to say that anyone who "backs" the U.N. resolution will "soon regret" their acts. He also added that in "February, Iranians will celebrate" the nation becoming a nuclear power.

"This resolution will not harm Iran and those who backed it will soon regret their superficial act. Iranians are neither worried nor uncomfortable with the resolution ... we will celebrate our atomic achievements in February," added Ahmadinejad.

 On December 23, 2006, the U.N. stated that the resolution is "determined to give effect to its unmet 31 July demand that Iran suspend all uranium enrichment-related and reprocessing activities. The Security Council today imposed sanctions on that country [Iran], blocking the import or export of sensitive nuclear material and equipment and freezing the financial assets of persons or entities supporting its proliferation sensitive nuclear activities or the development of nuclear-weapon delivery systems," reported the press release on the U.N.'s website.

The U.N. also said that Iran must suspend all uranium enrichment and that the sanction would be lifted if the country complies with the U.N..

"Unanimously adopting resolution 1737 (2006) under Article 41 of the Charter’s Chapter VII, the Council decided that Iran should, without further delay, suspend the following proliferation sensitive nuclear activities: all enrichment-related and reprocessing activities, including research and development; and work on all heavy-water related projects, including the construction of a research reactor moderated by heavy water. The halt to those activities would be verified by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)."

The U.N. also stated that "specifically, all States [countries] should prevent the supply, sale or transfer, for the use by or benefit of Iran, of related equipment and technology, if the State determined that such items would contribute to enrichment-related, reprocessing or heavy-water related activities, or to the development of nuclear weapon delivery systems. The Council decided it would terminate the measures if Iran fully complied with its obligations, or adopt additional ones and possible further decisions if the country did not."

Iran also said that beginning on "Sunday morning, we [Iran] will begin activities at Natanz" which has "3,000 centrifuges" which they "will drive them with full speed" in response to the U.N.'s resolution.

"From Sunday morning, we will begin activities at Natanz, the site of 3,000-centrifuge machines, and we will drive it with full speed. It will be our immediate response to the resolution," said Ali Larijani, the top nuclear negotiator for Iran.

The U.N. will review the resolution and Iran's activities in 60 days.