Following the recent unrest in Iran, and the forced closing of Mehdi Karroubi’s office on September 8, Supreme Leader warned the opposition leaders Mir Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karroubi and their supporters that they will be "confronted."

 missing image|File:Grand Ayatollah Ali Khamenei,.jpg|left|thumb|Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Khamenei 
"The system will not take action against anyone as long as they perform within the framework of the system, do not resort to violence, do not disturb the calm in society and do not carry out unlawful actions such as spreading lies and rumors," stated Khamenei during the Friday prayers.

The Supreme leader warned that anyone who confronts the system will face serious consequences. He also mentioned the possible arrest of Mousavi and Karroubi in the future if their ideas and ideology threaten the system. 

Khamenei again supported Iran’s nuclear program and gave Mahmoud Ahmadinejad his full support, and he said the Islamic Republic of Iran will not be intimidated by the Western powers, the United States and Britain. The U.S. and Britain are pushing Russia and their allies for more sanctions on Iran, and the option of a military action against Iran's nuclear program. The Iranian nuclear program is believed not to conform to International Atomic Energy Agency rules and regulations, and to have enough enriched uranium to build an Atom Bomb which threatens the existence of Israel.

Iran's June 12 Presidential election was decried by all opposition candidates as flawed due to vote fraud. Street protests began nearly immediately in major cities of Iran. While many western states expressed concern over alleged voting irregularities, the Guardian Council announced that a recount confirmed the earlier results re-electing Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.

The Government of Iran has been ordered by the Supreme Leader to continue crackdowns and arrest those involved in creating disturbance and confronting the system. Thousands of people were arrested in June following the mass protests in cities across Iran. More than five hundred are still missing and more will be put on trial in the weeks to come.