Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon underwent emergency surgery at Hadassah Medical Center in Israel to treat intestinal damage revealed by a recent computed tomography, better known as a CT scan. The Chief Surgeon said, "Sharon is out of danger, for the moment. His condition is stable and the surgery was a success." Sharon is currently in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of the hospital.

Yesterday doctors treating Sharon had noticed a swollen abdomen and ordered a CT scan on his torso and found the damage to his intestine. Later tests had shown that part of the large intestine had developed necrosis and needed to be immediately removed.

Hospital director Shlomo Mor-Yosef stated a press conference that there were "no complications" during surgery. "His (Sharon's) key problem is lack of consciousness. There is no significant change in his condition. Doctors did not find any occluded artery and there were no blood vessels blocked. He is stable but in critical condition at this time and he is in no immediate danger at this moment."

Yosef also said that Sharon's sons and family had met earlier and decided to go forward with the surgery and treatment.

Doctors removed at least 50cm of Sharon's large intestine.

Yosef also said that possible reasons as to why Sharon's intestine was damaged were, "maybe infection or decline of blood supply to the intestine." Yosef also said that the surgery was both a "routine procedure" and "not a dramatic" one. "Hospitals perform these operations sometimes two or three times a day," he added.

Yael Bossem-Levy, a spokesman for Hadassah Medical Center said earlier that, "the prime minister's life is in danger. His condition is now very serious, or critical. Sharon's digestive tract has undergone severe deterioration while he's been unconscious, and there appears to be a blockage in his blood circulation. The restricted blood flow raised the possibility of necrosis, or death of tissue, in the intestines."

Levy also stated that Sharon's condition has "deteriorated to its most critical point since his admission."

The 77 year-old leader has been hospitalized since January 4th, after suffering a massive stroke which left him comatose. This is his seventh surgery since his hospitalization.

Sharon has been hospitalized for thirty-nine days, and has been on a feeding tube for two weeks.