On Tuesday, US Federal prosecutors ordered that global bank JPMorgan Chase & Co. must pay nearly 2.6 billion USD in civil and criminal settlements toward the U.S. government and victims of Bernard Madoff, "mastermind of the biggest Ponzi scheme in history", according to CNN and Reuters.

Prosecutors found JPMorgan guilty of committing two felony violations of the 1970 Bank Secrecy Act, which required banks to report to authorities any suspicious behavior. For violating the act, the bank was expected to pay 1.7 billion USD in penalties, "the largest forfeiture a bank has ever had to pay for anti-money laundering violations," according to Reuters. The New York Times has also reported that the settlement was considered to be not tax-deductible.

The allegations put forth have in essence accused the nation's largest bank of turning a blind eye to Madoff's schemes while acting as his personal banker. JPMorgan spokesman Joe Evangelisti attempted to defend the bank, saying "We do not believe that any JPMorgan Chase employee knowingly assisted Madoff’s Ponzi scheme" and he added that "We recognize we could have done a better job pulling together various pieces of information and concerns about Madoff from different parts of the bank over time." He also noted that the bank did file a suspicious activity report concerning Madoff in Britain, but failed to do so in the United States based on the belief that no employee would aid Madoff.

Most of the financial settlement will be directed towards the thousands of celebrities, charities, and other organizations that fell victim to the 17.3 billion USD Ponzi scheme. Five former JPMorgan employees are also pleading not guilty in a trial in Manhattan for having knowledge of and assisting in the scheme. "JPMorgan as an institution failed and failed miserably," United States prosecutor Preet Bharara announced in a public statement.

The recent lawsuit against JPMorgan was the culmination of a decade-long FBI investigation into general money lending practices. The investigation also formed part of a larger sweep into the trail of money laundering schemes, which nabbed other British banks such as Standard Chartered and Barclays.

This financial setback was only part of an ongoing series of other legal difficulties that JPMorgan currently faces. In November, the global bank agreed to a 13 billion USD settlement with the U.S. government over its mishandling of several mortgage bonds, plus another 4.5 billion USD settlement with independent investors suffering bad securities sold during the 2008 United States housing bubble. The firm also had to answer to some eight probes from different international governments, including one in China for its reportedly atrocious hiring practices there. Madoff is still serving a 150-year sentence in federal prison in North Carolina after pleading guilty to 11 criminal counts.