British actress Kara Tointon and her Russian dance partner Artem Chigvintsev have become the winners of the latest series of the BBC Television programme Strictly Come Dancing. The pair won the dancing show on Saturday, leaving British television presenter Matt Baker and his Kazakhstani dance partner Aliona Vilani in second place. 

Bookmakers had considered this dancing duo to be the most likely to win the series. Meanwhile, Australian actress Pamela Stephenson finished in third place along with her British dance partner, James Jordan. It was ultimately a public vote that determined the results.

Upon winning, Tointon proclaimed: "It's just the most special thing that I've ever achieved." In reference to Chigvintsev, she exclaimed: "I want to thank this man, he's been absolutely wonderful." Talking about the experience, she commented: "I've met the most fantastic friends in my life and this has been the most special experience for me." Chigvintsev then declared to Tointon: "You're amazing." Baker described the dancing pair as "worthy winners, without any doubt", saying: "If I was at home I'd be voting for you, too."

Earlier in the final programme, Tointon and Chigvintsev had danced to the tune of Cry Me a River; the dance received the acclaim of the judges. "I would kill to be able to dance like that, I thought it was amazing," Craig Revel Horwood exclaimed. Alesha Dixon commented: "I'm quite sad that that is the last dance we are going to see you do". In reference to the pair, she added: "Together you are first class." Bruno Tonioli remarked: "You danced to a level that we hardly ever see here. Whatever happens, this was incredible."

Bruno Tonioli described Matt Baker as "very dashing and elegant". Len Goodman believed that he was "an excellent ballroom dancer". At one point, Palema Stephenson received a perfect score of 40 from the four judges for her Viennese Waltz. Tonioli branded the dance as "simply brilliant". Revel Horwood used the word "remarkable" to describe that performance.