The Kennedy Center announced that its 30th presentation of the Kennedy Center Honors would go to pianist Leon Fleisher, comedian Steve Martin, singer Diana Ross, director Martin Scorsese and musician Brian Wilson. The Center was opened to the public in 1971 and was envisioned as part of the National Cultural Center Act, which mandated that the independent, privately-funded institution would present a wide variety of both classical and contemporary performances, commission the creation of new artistic works, and undertake a variety of educational missions to increase awareness of the arts. 

In a statement, Kennedy Center Chairman Stephen A. Schwarzman said that "with their extraordinary talent, creativity and perseverance, the five 2007 honorees have transformed the way we, as Americans, see, hear and feel the performing arts."

Fleisher, 79, a member of the Peabody Institute's music faculty, is a pianist who lost use of his right hand in 1965 due to a neurological condition. He became an accomplished musician and conductor through the use of his left hand. At 67, he regained the use of his right hand. With the advent of Botox therapy, he was once more able to undertake two-hand performances in 2004, his first in four decades. "I'm very gratified by the fact that it's an apolitical honor," Fleisher said. "It is given by colleagues and professional people who are aware of what [an artist] has done, so it really is apolitical -- and that much more of an honor."

Martin, 62, a comedian who has written books and essays in addition to his acting and stand-up comedy career, rose to fame during his work on the American television program Saturday Night Live in the 1970's. Schwarzman praised his work as that of a "renaissance comic whose talents wipe out the boundaries between artistic disciplines." Martin responded to the honor saying, "I am grateful to the Kennedy Center for finally alleviating in me years of covetousness and trophy envy." 

Ross, 63, was a product of Detroit's Brewster-Douglass Projects when as a teeager she and friends Mary Wilson and Florence Ballardis formed The Supremes, a ground-breaking Motown act. She portrayed singer Billie Holiday in the 1972 film Lady Sings the Blues, which earned her an Oscar nomination and a Golden Globe award. "Diana Ross' singular, instantly recognizable voice has spread romance and joy throughout the world," said Schwarzman. Ross said she was "taken aback. It is a huge, huge honor and I am excited to be in this class of people." 

Scorsese, 64, is one of the most accomplished directors the United States ever produced, whose work includes Mean Streets, Taxi Driver, GoodFellas, Cape Fear, The Last Temptation of Christ and The Departed, for which he won a 2006 Academy Award for Best Director after being nominated eight times. Scorsese said, "I'm very honored to be receiving this recognition from the Kennedy Center and proud to be joining the company of the very distinguished individuals who have received this honor in years past."

Wilson, 65, along with his brothers Dennis and Carl, formed the Beach Boys in 1961. They had a series of hits that included "Surfin' U.S.A." and "Wouldn't It Be Nice." Their 1966 album Pet Sounds is considered one of the most influential recordings in American music. "This is something so unexpected and I feel extremely fortunate to be in the company of such great artists," said Wilson, who is currently on tour.

The Kennedy Center's board of trustees is responsible for selecting honorees for "lifetime contributions to American culture through the performing arts." Previous honorees, including Elton John and Steven Spielberg, also submitted recommendations. A wide variety of people were under consideration, including Emanuel Ax, Evgeny Kissin, Renee Fleming, Laurence Fishburne, Francis Ford Coppola, Melissa Etheridge and Kenny Chesney.

President Bush and first lady Laura Bush will attend the center's presentation at its opera house on December 2, 2007, which will broadcast on December 26 on CBS.