Kenya's Robert Cheruiyot won the men's division of the 111th running of the Boston Marathon finishing with a unofficial time of 2:14:13 seconds. This is Kenya's 15th win in 17 years. It is also Cheruiyot's third Boston Marathon win and second consecutive win. Cheruiyot first won in 2003, then again last year and setting the current course record of 2:07:14. He was able to win despite a slick, wet road, fierce winds on the final stretch and headaches that have plagued him since suffering a concussion sliding across the finish line in the Chicago Marathon last year after a fall. "When the lion is chasing the antelope, he doesn't look back. He has to eat, so when I run, I don't stare at my time," stated Cheruiyot.


Russia's Lidiya Grigoryeva captured the women's division crown with an unofficial time of 2:29:18. This is her first Boston Marathon win and Russia's fourth win. She beat last year's champion Kenyan Rita Jeptoo and the American favorite Deena Kastor, who was born in Waltham.

Japan conquered the wheelchair divisions winning with Masazumi Soejima capturing the men's wheelchair crown with an unofficial time of 1:29:16 beating South Africa's Ernst Van Dyk who hoping to tie with the current Marathon record of seven total wins. Van Dyk won the Marathon's men's wheelchair division from 2001 through 2006. Wakako Tsuchida won the women's wheelchair division with an unofficial time of 1:43:29. The two wins were Japan's first in the wheelchair divisions. 

The weather was of some concern due to the fact a Nor'easter pounded the area the night before that forecasters were predicting to interfere with the race. However, by morning the weather was calm with a temperature of 52 degrees Fahrenheit and some moderate rain leaving the road slick along with some stiff winds at starting line in Hopkinton. However, the sun made an appearance during the race. However, the winds did slow down the runners somewhat. Others did not turn up at all, Marathon officials reported that 2,449 of 23,903 registered runners did not pick up their bibs.

Local inspirational icons, Team Hoyt, made up of Dick and Rick Hoyt did not take part, due to the fact, Rick Hoyt, who was diagnosed with cerebral palsy at birth could not compete as he was recovering from surgery and a infection in his hip.

The Marathon winners receive $100,000 USD as first prize and a olive wreath.