China, the world's second-largest economy, decelerated in the third quarter of 2015. However, stronger spending by consumers seems to be helping to avoid a much more serious downfall.
In laymen terms: pessimistic analysts predicted a severe downturn for the Chinese market.

While the government declared target is 7%, the actual growth rate has dropped to 6.9%; still above expectations but showing the effects of stock market volatility over the summer.
Stimulus measures were taken (a repeated interest rate cut was one), however it is feared that the toll on the growth might be too severe for it to be so easily stopped.

In a move set to "upgrade" the economy - Beijing set an official growth-target of 7%, with Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China assuring that a lower growth rate would also be acceptable, depending on the amount of new jobs created.
“China’s economic development has entered a new normal. Our country is in a crucial period during which challenges need to be overcome and problems need to be resolved,” Premier of the State Council Li Keqiang declared in his report to the National People's Congress.

Economists and other experts still call for more government intervention, as volatility in the markets raises concerns of financial turmoil, which may eventually lead towards social unrest and uprising. Other worries voiced over various press outlets were mostly environmental, however it is fair to point out that China, while extremely polluted - still invests incredible sums of money into renewable energy, and it is the worlds biggest consumer and producer of solar energy.

People's Bank of China policymaker released a statement, reassuring investors that while China's levels of growth are at a new low (slowest paste seen in the last two decades) - it is still faster in comparison to other major economies.
However, latest data showcases confusion bordering dichotomy: on the one had - the Communist Party nurtures self sustaining growth that is based on domestic consumption, while manufacturers are shrinking and shedding numerous of jobs (millions). The above takes into account the reduced reliance on trade and investment, as causes by aforementioned volatility. 
A report from Oxford Economics mentioned that while the GDP growth dropped due to partial hardship in real-estate and exports - "But robust consumption and infrastructure prevented a sharper slowdown."