The London Underground service was disrupted today due to a man being caught under a train near Marble Arch Station in the city of Westminster, Central London. 
According to British Transport Police officials,
 
"on Wednesday 9 August 2006 at 16:30 the Central line was suspended between Liverpool Street and White City due to a person under a westbound train at Marble Arch. The person was confirmed deceased at 17:20. At 19:45 service resumed from Liverpool Street and White City. There was severe delays on the Central line until the close of traffic.[sic]"
 

The incident affected the Underground's Central Line between Liverpool Street Station and White City Station. According to Underground staff, the Central Line service on this route was suspended at 17:20 local time. On stations that connect to the Central Line, passengers were informed that "service for the Central Line is suspended until further notice" and that their "...tickets will be valid for all local traffic." In addition to announcements over loudspeaker, passengers were advised of the interruption with notices on white boards inside of most stations in Central London. While Marble Arch Station was closed off, additional buses were made available by the city to carry Underground passengers from Central Line connection points like Bond Street Station to their intended destinations. 

 

The scene outside of Marble Arch station brought back memories of last year's train bombings: Underground staff, as well as police officers blocked the entrance to the station, and advised passengers to use alternate means of transportation; meanwhile, vehicles from the London Underground Emergency Response Unit, as well as police cars were standing by outside the station. 
British Trasport Police did not release further details about the accident.

By 20:00 local time, London Underground staff confirmed that service on the Central Line had been fully restored. "Yes, they're all open" said an Underground associate when asked whether Marble Arch Station had resumed service. By 23:00 local time, however, the Central Line service still reported "severe delays" on some stations. On Thursday, August 10th, the Central Line was operating normally again, but the service interruption was overshadowed by the breaking news regarding a plot to detonate explosives on airplanes flying from the UK to the United States.

Train accidents on the Tube are not uncommon: the London Underground reports 53 injuries last year and continues to advise passengers to "mind the gap between the train and the platform" when trains arrive, and to "stand clear of the closing doors," in order to help ensure a safe journey. In addition, passengers are also advised to carry a bottle of water with them on hot days to avoid heat-related injuries and to remember to "take all their belongings with them when [they] leave the train, in order to avoid station closures and security alerts."

The closure of Marble Arch Station was not the only service interruption on Wednesday; according to its web site, London Underground reports that Baker Street Station was also closed down due to a gas leak. The station reopened Thursday afternoon, but some delays were reported.