Finnish theatrical hard rock band Lordi have released Beast Loose in Paradise - which will be the soundtrack to the band's upcoming horror movie Dark Floors - as a downloadable single.

The song was originally intended to be released via Zed.fi, but for unknown reasons has not appeared on the site. However, it has appeared on at least two other sites as a pay-to-download single - MSN Music Finland and MTV3.fi.

The song was one of two recorded last month, and will be released by Sony BMG Finland as an actual CD on January 8 . The other song, titled Studs and Leather, was also written for the movie.

The cover art for the CD single has already been revealed. It is a direct tribute to the KISS album Creatures of the Night.

Most of both songs were composed during Lordi's tour of the United States as part of Ozzfest, with the band's lead vocalist saying in an interview with MonsterDiscoHell.com that the main riff of Beast Loose in Paradise was written in Milwaukee, while the chorus of Studs and Leather was composed in St. Augustine. 

He went on to say that Studs and Leather had originally been intended for Bend over and Pray the Lord!, an unreleased album from 1999 that had been intended to be Lordi's debut. The verses from Beast Loose in Paradise had been decided on between the whole band during therapy sessions at Christmas 2006. He said that he had written most of the rest between two US tours, the Ozzfest tour and a tour as the support act for American gothic doom metal band Type O Negative.

He continued to deny a recent rumour posted in Finnish music periodical Soundi that the new material was going to be "more brutal and raw" than that on Lordi's last album, The Arockalypse. "Our music is not gonna get any brutal or heavier, but not any lighter [either]... I'd say these two songs are familiar Lordi. Although Beast Loose in Paradise is more 'movie-esque' and 'horror-ish' on purpose. And some might say it's even heavier, but at the very least the chorus will be familiar and melodic Lordi stuff. And Studs and Leather is basically Heaven's on Fire (KISS song) meets Balls To The Wall (Accept song).