A full crowd showed up at the Stade de Gerland in Lyon earlier today, only to watch their home side fall to Roma of Italy. The previous leg in the series saw the two teams draw 0-0 which gave Roma a slight advantage from the start, as a draw would allow them to advance. The previous match was extremely undisciplined, and Roma was given eight yellow cards. The Italian side showed a much calmer demeanor this game, earning only two yellows in comparison to Lyon's four.

Lyon produced the first chance of the game as Romas keeper Alexandre Doni was unable to cope with Juninho, but defender Philippe Mexes was able to clear the ball from nearby strikers. Roma had their own chance soon after, as Daniele De Rossi was left open, and he headed the ball home. The goal was disallowed by the referee after he spotted a push by De Rossi on Eric Abidal. Juninho continued to threaten Roma, but his crosses were not able to do any damage to the Rossinari. Lyon fell behind on 22 minutes when Max Tonetto clipped a cross into the middle, and Francesco Totti was in the right place to head the ball past Gregory Coupet. Crosses continued to be the only attack Lyon could muster, and they produced a good chance off a Juninho corner kick. The ball ricoched off several players before Squillaci latch on for a shot, but the ball was sent directly at Doni, and the keeper made the save. Mancini then doubled the visitors lead just before halftime. After some quick stepovers to fool Anthony Reveillere, he struck the ball soundly into the top corner of the net.

After the break, Roma could have killed off the game indefinitely, as Tadei beat Lyon's offside trap, but was unable to regain the composure required to smash the ball home. Doni then produced a few saves for Roma, kicking out Sylvan Wiltord's shot, and then diving to palm away a curling shot by Juninho. Both teams then made vain attempts for a penalty, but both Fred and Perrotta diving, but the referee made the right decisions and awarded only a yellow to Perrotta. Fred was then given a yellow for cruelly smashing Chivu in the face with his arm. Fred was lucky to receive a red for his actions. Roma held on for the win, and the 5 time french champions bowed out of the Champions League.