Brazilian driver Filipe Massa, driving for Ferrari, won the Brazilian Grand Prix at Autódromo José Carlos Pace in Interlagos, São Paulo. This is his second Grand Prix victory. Massa became the first Brazilian to win on home soil since Ayrton Senna in 1993. Massa started from pole and controlled the race from start to the finish line.

Fernando Alonso finished second to win the drivers' championship. He became the youngest second-time champion. Alonso, along with the second Renault driver, Giancarlo Fisichella who finished sixth, won the constructors' cup for their team with only five points ahead of Ferrari. Jenson Button, one of Honda's drivers, finished behind Alonso.

Michael Schumacher had a few problems this weekend. In the beginning of the third qualification session his car slowed down and forced him to start 10th on Sunday. In the race he was almost on the back of Fisichella, but damaged his tyre in the overtaking attempt and lose all positions. But the retiring champion was right on the back of Fisico for the second time near the end of the race. Giancarlo made a crucial mistake prior to Senna's "S"-curve allowing Michael to pass him. Next aim was Kimi Räikkönen, from McLaren-Mercedes, who lost his place to Schumacher in the same turn. Must note that all Schumacher overtook most of the other drivers in the same turn. The "Red Baron" set up the fastest time and the top speed record for this track. Let's say the words Nick Heidfeld, Sauber-BMW team driver, wrote on the back of his aerodynamical spoiler - "Danke, Michael!". Danke, Michael, for the fantastic race and so many seasons together. You overcomed the difficulties as the true champion.

Kimi and Giancarlo finished 5-th and 6-th respectively.
Rubens Barrichello (Honda, Pedro de la Rosa (McLaren-Mercedes) and Poland Robert Kubica (Sauber-BMW)
were 7-th, 8-th and 9-th respectfully. Takuma Sato closed the season with 10-th place, first who finished in one lap after the winner, the best result for Super Aguri-Honda team.

With ten laps to go, the most surprising event was Kimi's resistance when his open wheels untimely overlapped with Michael's, especially when one knows Kimi will run with Ferrari next season.