The latest advertisement for United States Republican presidential candidate John McCain is questioning Democrat Barack Obama's benefit to families.

Last week the BBC reported that the McCain campaign had released an advertisement comparing Obama to American celebrities Britney Spears and Paris Hilton, calling him "the biggest celebrity in the world."

McCain's newest advertisement, released early this week, continues along those same lines.

"Is the biggest celebrity in the world ready to help your family?" the narrator asks, according to The Boston Globe and a video of the ad displayed on its website. "The real Obama promises higher taxes, more government spending. So, fewer jobs." With images of wind turbines in the background, the narrator says, "Renewable energy to transform our economy, create jobs and energy independence, that's John McCain."

The Boston Globe reports that McCain's latest ad does not acknowledge that Obama's economic policy, especially the proposed rollback of current president George W. Bush's capital gains tax cuts, would largely affect the wealthiest of America, not the middle class.

Obama, the BBC reports, is quoted as calling McCain "cynical," "desperate" and "in the pocket of Big Oil."

The latest Obama video, shown on the USA Today website, touts McCain as "just more of the same" politics employed by George W. Bush. The ad cites a May 22, 2003 Fox News Channel interview where McCain says "the President and I agree on most issues. There was a recent study that showed I voted with the President over 90 percent of the time." The ad then criticizes McCain's policies on tax cuts, money for oil companies, and "tax breaks for companies that ship jobs overseas."

USA Today does note that "[w]hile the ad shows McCain touting the fact that he had voted "with" President Bush more than 90% of the time, the Arizona senator did criticize the administration's conduct of the war in Iraq — calling early on for more troops to be sent there. He also voted against the president's original tax cut plan — though McCain now says he supports extending those tax cuts. And, he proposes cuts in all kinds of corporate taxes, not just those on oil companies."

McCain is set to appear at an Ohio furniture plant Wednesday to reinforce the messages in his latest advertisement.

"America has the second highest business tax rate in the entire world," he plans to say, according to prepared remarks issued by his campaign, and released by The Boston Globe. "Is it any wonder that jobs are moving overseas when we are taxing them out of the country? Unfortunately Senator Obama's plans would raise taxes on businesses even more. He has promised tax increases on income, tax increases on investment, tax increases on small businesses. This is exactly the wrong strategy. Raising taxes in a bad economy is about the worst thing you could do because it will kill even more jobs when what we need are policies that create jobs."

Obama spokesman Bill Burton responded:

"Is the biggest proponent of George Bush’s tired, failed policies ready to bring about change? Another day brings another dishonest attack from John McCain. While Senator McCain knows that Senator Obama has proposed cutting taxes for 95% of American families, what he’s not telling us is that he wants to give $4 billion in tax breaks to the oil companies, continue giving tax breaks to corporations that ship our job overseas, and provide no direct tax relief for more than 100 million middle-class families. It’s time to retire these old policies and bring new energy to America."