Activist groups in the Philippines led by Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (New Patriotic Alliance) or Bayan are set to submit "cabinet level documents" as evidence to international bodies purportedly showing that the office of the President, Malacañang sanctioned the series of extrajudicial killings in the country.

The evidence is to be presented to the Permanent People's Tribunal and the United Nations Special Rapporteurs, which is scheduled to visit the country this year.

In a press statement, Bayan expressed disappointment with the report of the Melo Commission saying that "the report merely tells us what we already know, and that the report stops short of finding the roots of the extra-judicial killings."

"Everyone knows that Palparan is involved in the killings," said Bayan secretary general Renato Reyes Jr., asking that "why is it that after Palparan retired [in September 2006], the killings continued?"

Reyes concluded that "this only shows that the killings go beyond Palparan. We have repeatedly said that there is a national policy involved which sanctions the assassination of activists. The Melo Commission seems to have conveniently ignored this reality and has limited its report to Palparan's responsibility and shielded the administration from any culpability."

The documents, Reyes said, detail a "step-by-step matrix" on how to "neutralize" legal organizations. He added that the document was presented to the Arroyo Cabinet.

Meanwhile, the group challenged Malacañang to abide by the fact-finding commission's recommendation to file charges against retired Major General Jovito Palparan and other military field commanders for their involvement in the killings.

He also said President Arroyo, as commander-in-chief, should "take responsibility for the killings."

Human rights group Karapatan recorded more than 700 leftist activists, farmers, community organizers and journalists killed since Mrs. Arroyo came to power in 2001.

The latest victim, Dominador L. De Luna, 51, an employee of the National Food Authority (NFA) in Samar, was gunned down just when the necrological mass for Jose Maria Cui, a professor at University of Eastern Philippines who was shot in front of his students, was being held last January 29.