Mother's Day was established on the second Sunday in May by Anna Jarvis after her mother passed away. Former United States President Woodrow Wilson proclaimed the inaugural Mother's Day in 1914.

"Miss Jarvis thought Mother's Day should be a day you spend with your mother, or a day when you do something special for her like fix her dinner or repair her broken stairs," said an archivist at Mary Baldwin College. "Mother's Day has nothing to do with candy," said Jarvis, "It's really a shame to waste flowers for Mother's Day." 

This year again, the American congress approved the observance and requested the president to call upon citizens to partake in the time honoured recognition of this tradition. "I, Barack Obama, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim May 10, 2009, as Mother's Day. I urge all Americans to express their love, respect, and gratitude to mothers everywhere, and I call upon all citizens to observe this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities."

Tara McDonald, the mother of abducted Woodstock, Ontario eight year old, Victoria (Tori) Stafford, said "I would really hope to have my child home for Mother's Day." McDonald said that dealing with Tori's absence since April 8 has resulted in "times when I sit in my house and bawl my eyes out and I curl up into a ball and I sob."

61 year old Lynda McDade graduated Saturday from the University of Detroit along with her two daughters.

A mother under court order forbidding her access to her three children for three years was thrown in jail for approaching her child and telling him she loved him. The mother has been accused of turning the children against the father, a rich City financier who now has custody of the family's children.

Gloria Steele, Acting Assistant Administrator for Global Health honours the 20th anniversary of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), "Women make extraordinary contributions as caregivers and caretakers, as well as breadwinners and bread-makers. By averting maternal death and disability that cost families and communities so much, we can improve the productive capacity of women in their own nations"

Nadya Suleman, known as Octomom is spending this mother's day weekend in a California hospital undergoing uterine surgery. This operation will also make Suleman's family complete with fourteen children as she will no longer be able to physcially conceive a child following the surgery.

Mary Ann Wright, known as "Mother Wright", died Thursday in Oakland, California, but not before achieving renown as advocate for the poor, and feeding the hungry. She founded the Mother May Ann Wright Foundation from her modest beginnings sparing meals to others while subsisting herself on Social Security checks.

Maree Vaile is a mother of three who was humbled by New Zealand's Mother of the Year award. Her husband and children recognised the adversity the family has overcome and wanted to show their appreciation by nominating her in the "Mums on Top" online competition. 

In Taiwan, students from South Taiwan who attend University in North Taiwan could board a special train provided by the Taiwan Railway Adminsitration so they could visit their mothers on Mother's Day. "Give your mother a hug, a big and strong hug, because love is not only a noun, it is also a verb," President Ma Ying-jeou said, "The older mothers grow, the greater is their need to feel needed. So we should show our love for our mother."