Hosni Mubarak, the Egyptian president ousted in February after massive demonstrations, has been summoned by officials in the country to face questions about corruption within his administration and allegations he ordered his forces to kill activists protesting against him. 

The news came hours after Mubarak announced he would cooperate with the investigation into corruption within his regime, and said he would robustly defend himself against what he termed an "unjust" campaign of "distortions, lies and incitement" against him. He made the comments in his first appearance since he was ousted from office.

His two sons have also been summoned by Egyptian prosecutors to answer to allegations of embezzlement of public funds during Mubarak's rule. This afternoon, the former prime minister of Egypt, Ahmed Nazif, was taken into custody for 15 days as part of the corruption investigation, the Egyptian public prosecutor said in a statement.

Mubarak said he would not be returning to politics and he had left office in "the interest of the country". He said he would write to Egyptian officials to say he would cooperate with their investigation, and added the inquest would find his assets were "far from any allegations of corruption," following which he would "legally pursue those who engaged in lies and distortions against me."


In an audio message which aired today on Al-Arabiya, Mubarak said he would not "stay silent regarding the incitement campaign against me." He said: "I have been in great pain because of the unjust campaigns and untrue allegations targeting myself and my family. They aim to tarnish my reputation and discredit my integrity, my stance, my political and military history during which I worked hard for Egypt and its people in peace and war." 

On Friday, dozens were injured and at least one person killed as the Egyptian army moved into Tahrir Square in Cairo to clear protesters calling for Mubarak to stand trial for corruption. The army has denied using live ammunition, but several people suffered gunshot wounds.

Three people within Mubarak's administration have been charged with corruption by Egyptian authorities in the wake of Mubarak stepping down from his position as president two months ago after widespread protests in Egypt. Officials have denied reports he is unwell, and he is thought to be residing at his home in Sharm el-Sheikh, on the coast of the Red Sea. He has been barred from leaving the country.