At least six fatalities have resulted this afternoon from a bin lorry crashing in the centre of Glasgow, Scotland.

The accident occurred at about 1430 UTC today, when the vehicle hit multiple pedestrians on Queen Street, then crashed into Millennium Hotel alongside George Square, located in the city centre. BBC Scotland reporter Laura Bicker reported witness accounts the vehicle "careered out of control" and the driver "slumped over the wheel" when the crash occurred.

It is not yet clear how many people have been killed or injured, although Police Scotland have reported "a number of fatalities and people injured", with "all casualties, including the driver of the bin lorry", alternately being taken to Southern General Hospital, Western Infirmary and Glasgow Royal Infirmary. They later said on Twitter at least six people have died and eight people are receiving hospital treatment. Police Superintendent Stewart Carle said at least seven people suffered serious injury, although the total number of those injured may be greater than this. Sky News has reported six fatalities and a larger number of people injured.

Superintendent Carle further explained that police will investigate what the force has described as a "major incident" for the rest of the day and overnight, although they do not suspect there was any "sinister" activity behind it. They told the council to leave Christmas lights on to help the investigation; the council had offered to switch them off as a mark of respect. A winter wonderland attraction has been operating in the area this month. Anyone with photos or video is asked to email the police at georgesquareincident@scotland.pnn.police.uk.

Social media is abuzz with Scots and their loved ones checking each other are safe, and offering condolences. "Absolutely gutted for the families of the people killed today, to think[...] I could've been killed too is a shock," said one woman, who passed the scene shortly before the crash. She added she had "seen people in body bags" and was reluctant to go to get her train in Queen Street Station "incase I see more bodies". "Genuinely don't care about Xmas shopping now[, I] was getting so stressed over silly things when other people are losing their family... will be thinking of them at Xmas" she said, later telling well-wishers "Thanks so much guys send your good vibes to their families though they're the ones that really need it".

Another local woman said she is "stunned" and she had "stood in that exact spot yesterday afternoon. Taking pictures of the lights". She says the city now faces "Another sad Christmas." She was referring to a police helicopter that crashed into a Glasgow pub on November 29 last year. Three on board and seven on the ground were killed.