Munster won the 2005-06 Heineken Cup, beating Biarritz 23 to 19 at Millennium Stadium in Cardiff, Wales. The match is Biarritz's first Heineken Cup final appearance. It is Munster's third, after two final losses in the past. A jumbo screen was placed in the streets of Limerick, where thousands of Munster fans gathered.

Scoring opened just after three minutes, when Biarritz winger Sireli Bobo scored a try down the left sideline. The try, which came in centimetres of the touchline, was converted from the sideline by Dimitri Yachvili, taking Biarritz to seven points to nil. Ronan O'Gara landed a penalty in the 7th minute, putting three points on the board for Munster. Biarritz held out a Munsters for eight minutes, before taking the ball in their own in-goal area to take the ball to their 22. Munster regathered the ball, Trevor Halstead planted the ball down on the left corner to scored Munster's first try. O'Gara converted the try, taking Munster to the front, leading 10 points to seven, 18 minutes in.

A penalty on Munster's tryline in the 21st minute saw Biarritz go for a penalty kick. The kick, just left to the posts was converted by Yachvili, taking the game to 10 points all. Biarritz kept the pressure on Munster, coming close to scoring another try in the 27th minute. Peter Stringer dashed from a Munster scrum on the Biarritz try line to score a try. O'Gara converted the kick, putting Munster at 17 points to 10. Biarritz kicked the ball out on the 40th minute, taking the game into halftime.

Munster opened the scoring in the second half, with O'Gara slotting a penalty goal two minutes in, taking Munster 10 points in front of Biarritz, leading 20 points to 10. A penalty went to Biarritz in the 47th minute, with Biarritz opting for a kick. Yachvili was successful with the kick, giving Biarritz three points, taking the game to 20 to 13 to Munster. Less than three minutes later, Yachvili slotted another penalty goal over, taking Biarritz within four points of Munster, who lead 20 to 16 after the goal.

The scoring tightened for the following 10 minutes, until Biarritz was awarded a penalty in the 69th minute. Yachvili landed the penalty kick, putting Biarritz just one point behind Munster, the score now being 20 to 19 with 10 minutes remaining. Munster, searching for a way to further their lead, was awarded a penalty in the 73rd minute. O'Gara was successful, taking Munster to 23, with Biarritz on 19. Munster held on to the game, winning their first Heineken Cup.