Well-known Canadian singer-songwriter Joni Mitchell was found unconscious on Tuesday at her Los Angeles home, and immediately taken to hospital, according to reports. An update on her condition appeared yesterday on her website.


The update yesterday on her website said, "Joni remains under observation in the hospital and is resting comfortably. We are encouraged by her progress and she continues to improve and get stronger each day." Webpage 'We love you Joni' was also created for fans on Facebook and Twitter to send Mitchell messages to get well soon. 

A previous statement left on Mitchell's website on Tuesday said, "Joni was found unconscious in her home this afternoon. She regained consciousness on the ambulance ride to an L.A. area hospital. She is currently in intensive care undergoing tests and is awake and in good spirits." They added, "More updates to come when we hear them. Light a candle and sing a song, let's all send good wishes her way." 

According to an early report by TMZ, the seventy-one year old musician's condition was serious, and a 911 phone call was made from her home around 2:30 p.m. local time.

Rolling Stone, also claims that a Los Angeles Fire Department spokesperson explained to them that, though they could not reveal who was taken to the hospital at the time, paramedics were sent to Mitchell's house.

On her twitter account, CBC news producer Leslie Stojsic gave a conflicting statement to other reports on Mitchell's condition, saying, "Source tells me she's in hospital recovering after 'minor medical emergency,' was *not* found unconscious." She also added, "I'm told now she's resting in hospital and is among friends. A good sign."

It did not take long for her condition in hospital to spread through the social media. Many tweeted prayers and well wishes; one of them being rocker Billy Idol. He tweeted, "Sorry to hear todays news about Joni Mitchell. I sang on her 'Dancing Clown' single many moons ago, all the best 4 her recovery." 

Mitchell also reportedly suffers from Morgellons disease; a skin condition where people claim they have fibres coming out of their skin, along with tingling sensations. In her memoir, 'Joni Mitchell: In her own words,' released last year, the folk artist describes her experiences with the disease saying, "All the time it felt like I was being eaten alive by parasites living under my skin. I couldn't leave my house for several years."