Former Grambling State head coach Eddie Robinson died Tuesday night, after a lengthy fight with Alzheimer's disease. Robinson was diagnosed with the disease in 1997, and spent the last year in a nursing home.

Robinson passed, not long after being admitted to Lincoln General Hospital in Ruston, La., as reported by former Grambling State quarterback and Super Bowl MVP, Doug Williams. Williams added, "He'd been fighting that battle for a long time, It was one of the many he fought in his lifetime. We all know it's coming. But that's Eddie Robinson. Eddie Robinson is not supposed to go. But when you look back at it, there's lot of joy in it too. I don't think none of us have to worry about where he's going to be from now on. He is a gate keeper."

The following is a statement from Ms. Doris Robinson, wife of Eddie Robinson: "The many expressions of support, sympathy, and gratitude that we have received from all over the country have been overwhelming. I truly appreciate each and every person, so many of whom we have never met, who has said such kind and inspiring words about Eddie, his legacy, and our family. Our love and admiration for Eddie were unyielding, as was Eddie’s for his immediate family and his extended Grambling family. Eddie was the consummate husband, father, teacher, leader, role model, and, most of all, the greatest of Americans. Words cannot express the loneliness that I will feel without my beloved Eddie. However, I realize, and the immediate family realizes, the greatness that Eddie contributed to our society. He will forever fill our hearts, minds, and souls."

Robinson's career highlights included 57 years as head coach at Grambling State University, 408 victories, 45 winning seasons, 17 Southwestern Conference Championships, and over 200 players sent into the NFL. Funeral services will be held on Wednesday, April 11, beginning at 11:00 a.m. in the Assembly Center on the campus of Grambling State University (across from Robinson Stadium). Internment will be at Memorial Gardens in Grambling, La.