Neil Entwistle was named as a "person of interest" by authorities for the murder of his wife Rachel and nine-month-old baby daughter Lillian in their Hopkinton, Massachusetts home. Both were shot to death and found under a pile of blankets in the bedroom. The family had just moved into the home and had only been living there for ten days. Entwistle has not been in the United States since the murders.

However; it has been confirmed that Entwistle was arrested in England on two counts of murder, and one count of illegal possession of a firearm and ammunition on Thursday. Until today he has not been a suspect.

"Entwistle was arrested by British authorities and faces murder charges," said Emily LaGrassa, spokeswoman for the Middlesex District Attorney's office. "He is in police custody in England at this time." Entwistle was arrested at around noon (7 a.m. ET). 

A statement was released by the family of Rachel Entwistle saying, "The family is deeply saddened at the arrest of Neil Entwistle for the murders of Rachel and Lillian. We are heartbroken at the loss - to understand how this happened." 

District Attorney Martha Coakley, of Middlesex County, MA, said that Entwisle could have been planning a murder-suicide, but abandoned the suicide part of the plot after carrying out the murders. 

"On Thursday night, (January 19) Rachel was alive and had spoken with family members," said Coakley. She also says that authorities believe, "at some time on Friday morning, Neil Entwistle, with a firearm that we believe he had secured some time before that from his father-in-law Joseph Materazzo, shot Rachel Entwistle in the head and then proceeded to shoot baby Lillian, who was lying on the bed next to her mother. We believe possibly that this was intended to be a murder suicide, but we cannot confirm that. The murder was effected, the suicide was not. Forensic evidence linked the gun to Mr. Entwistle and his wife, but she had never used it (the gun). What we believe happened next was that Neil Entwistle returned the gun to his father-in-law's home, that he then made preparations to leave the country."

She also stated that Entwistle was observed leaving Boston's Logan International Airport on a flight to England. He had purchased the ticket on the phone.

"He was then in Worksop with his parents. Authorities went to the UK to pursue that investigation. They returned, the investigation pursued. We explored motive, with witnesses, with information from searches, internet capabilities," Coakley added. "Based upon that information and forensic information late Tuesday afternoon that linked the 22 handgun owned by Joseph Materazzo both to Neil Entwistle and to Rachel, we believed we had probable cause to seek an arrest warrant for Neil Entwistle's arrest."

Framingham District Court issued the warrant for his arrest last night. 

Entwistle has been at his parents home in England since last month and reportedly refused to cooperate with Massachusetts investigators when they arrived in England to question him about the deaths.

So far, Entwistle has not spoken in public nor did he attend the funerals of his wife and child.

=