Writing in its order that “although no evidentiary hearing had been held, the district court filed lengthy findings of fact . . . including a finding that [the grandmother of the child] voluntarily relinquished custody of the [dog] to the  City,” the   , meeting en banc in Carson City, ordered on December 19, 2013, that the case of Onion the dog be remanded back to the Las Vegas District Court for an evidentiary hearing.

A FOIA request to the city for veterinary records on the care of the dog were not honored.

In an unprecedented act for a state supreme court, the case of Onion the dog had been accepted and heard by the Nevada Supreme Court in oral argument on July 3, 2013.  In response to international interest, the oral argument was webcast as a live stream.

The case concerns the Las Vegas district court order of euthanasia of a family dog whose shaking of a one-year old in April, 2012, led to injuries that proved fatal, an incident which was described as accidental.  The dog has been incarcerated in isolation ever since animal control officers removed him under duress from the family home.  The grandmother of the victim filed an affidavit to this effect in transferring ownership of the dog to the Lexus Project dog advocate group.
 
The case has attracted the attention of animal welfare advocates worldwide as well as the   and the   and local jurisdictions which are considering rewriting animal control code as a result.

During the July 3 oral argument, the City of Henderson admitted under questioning that the dog had not been exercised even one time during the then 15-month incarceration.  This led the Lexus Project to file a motion on December 19, following the court order, that the dog be removed from the animal pound to a facility where he would be exercised regularly.

The District Court, in granting a temporary restraining order against killing the dog, ordered the City to care for the dog, stating “Defendants are to provide medical care for Onion while he is in their custody including, but not limited to having him evaluated by a licensed veterinarian and treated for any and all diseases or illnesses contracted or exacerbated while in custody.”   

The  Court denied the motion on December 20, writing that with the case being remanded to the District Court, such issues “should be addressed . . . in the district court.”

The ruling in the Onion case continues an accelerating trend nationwide in such cases.  In Chicago, dog advocates are battling to save the lives of two dogs (a 2-year old female and her 6-month old puppy) involved in the December 7 death of a youngster as a result of human neglect.   The case is being investigated as a homicide.

In 2012, a similar case led to a homicide conviction in South Carolina.  Also in 2012, a court in Mckeesport, Pennsylvania, allowed Nikko aka Helo, a dog involved in a child’s death, to live out his life in a sanctuary.  Such is the desire of those advocating for Onion’s freedom.

On April 28, 2012, a six-year old dog named Onion, of  , raised by his family from the age of four weeks, was startled and grabbed the family’s one-year old tot by the head and started to shake it as a toy.  Immediately stopped after being commanded to do so by the father, the baby’s cerebral trauma nonetheless proved severe and the baby died the next day.

Animal control, responding to the 911 call, demanded of the owner that the dog must be turned over to them for quarantine while the owner was holding the baby in her arms, without notice that the dog would be put down immediately after that period.  An animal rescue group near   learned of the fate of the dog, located the non-profit Blue Lion Rescue Animal Sanctuary in  , which agreed to take the dog without possibility of adoption, contacted a non-profit animal welfare legal group, the Lexus Project, to defend the dog, and located local Nevada counsel, all attorneys willing to work pro bono.  The Lexus Project established a trust to care for the dog, which was funded by animal welfare advocates nationwide.

The owners of the dog signed an affidavit that animal control took the dog in a situation of emotional distress and duress and that they desired the dog to live.  They transferred ownership to the Lexus Project.  The district judge refused to honor that agreement and the Lexus Project appealed to the Nevada Supreme Court with pleadings completed November 28, 2012.

The case generated international publicity and the focus of animal welfare groups on the unfairness of treatment of dogs deemed “vicious” and “dangerous” by statute.  Because of the media frenzy and the focus of the nation on Nevada, in May, 2013, the Court announced that the entire Court, not simply a panel of three, would listen to oral argument, slated for July 3, 2013, an event of sufficient legal significance that it was reported on the website of the   Journal. A Facebook dot com page and youcaring dot com page to “free Onion” asked for donations to allow the general counsel for the Lexus Project to travel to Nevada and pay the out-of-state attorney appearance fees at the oral hearing.  In another unprecedented action, the Court has ordered that because of statewide and national interest in the case the hearing will be streamed live on the internet from the Supreme Court courthouse in  .

The animal welfare law group of the   noted that the hearing of a case on animal welfare in front of a state supreme court was without precedent and that a favorable outcome for the dog would most likely have widespread implications for the treatment of dogs in such cases nationwide.

As the Onion incident became national news, other municipalities have considered life in a sanctuary as an alternative to euthanasia. The   has begun to discuss such alternatives as well as family responsibility in such tragedies.  At least one municipality has begun revision of their animal control laws to include this alternative as well as Miranda rights for dog owners.