Al-Qaeda's second in command, Ayman al-Zawahiri, has released a new videotape. The Arabic television network Aljazeera has aired the tape.

On the tape, al-Zawahiri said, "God bless the prophet of Islam in Iraq, the persistent hero of Islam, the Holy Warrior Abu Musab al-Zarqawi." According to Aljazeera, the tape was made before the death of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi who was the leader of al-Qaeda in Iraq.

During the broadcast, al-Zawahiri talks to the general Muslim population saying, "I call upon them to reject any referendum on Palestine, because Palestine is not for bargaining or bidding. Palestine was a land of Islam, and its liberation is the duty of every Muslim. I call upon Muslims everywhere to support the brothers in Palestine."

Al-Zawahiri also claims that the United Nations is trying to "occupy" Sudan and is attempting to "divide" the nation.

"The spineless Sudanese government ... is joining the United States in dividing Sudan to stay in power. In Sudan, the crusader (U.N.) Security Council decided to send military experts to Darfur in preparation for its occupation and division. I call upon every Muslim and everyone who has faith in Sudan, and every fervent Muslim in Darfur to confront the Zionist Crusader plot to occupy the lands of Islam," added al-Zawahiri.

Zawahiri also talks about judges in Egypt who wish to make the judiciary system independent.

"In Egypt, the crusader system supports the secular system that violates the judges' integrity, cheats in elections and enforces emergency law. Oh judges, you won't obtain independence unless your country is liberated first, and our home will not be liberated unless Islamic Sharia [law] is implemented. The regime won't give you your independence because to do so would be to kill itself," said Zawahiri, who was addressing the Egyptian judges.

"I have to be frank with you. You are part of the problem. You agreed on the constitution and the secular laws imposed on the nation by arms and suppression and torture and rigged elections. I tell the Egyptian judges you will not gain independence because America and Israel simply and clearly do not want that, and what you see today in procedures against you is part of their promised American reform plan," added Zawahiri.

Zawahiri also talks about the aid to the Palestinian government, which has been frozen. "The Arab governments did not have the courage to even meet the Palestinians' needs for one month. Because the orders came from [ Washington D.C. ] to their agents to starve the Palestinians and to isolate them," added Zawahiri.

The videotape is approximately 17 minutes long and it is unknown where Aljazeera got the tape.