Numerous rumors and news reports have swirled since the South Korean government study issued a report Tuesday stating that it believes a former influential figure from the North Korean regime of recently deceased "Great Leader" Kim Jong-il has died under mysterious circumstances.

Kim Kyong-hui was the daughter of the founder of the North Korea Kim Il-sung, sister of "Great Leader" Kim Jong-il, and aunt of the young upcoming North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, and as such has been the iconic political figure for the Kim dynasty. She wielded great influence throuhout her lifetime, attaining the posts of four-star general to the Korean People's Army and Secretary to the ruling North Korea Workers' Party. Behind the scenes, she helped the young Kim Jong-un rise to power and carry out his newfound responsibilities as head of state once he became of age, using her special status as daughter of the founder of the nation to provide support and legitimacy to his reign. Because of her immense power, she was not considered a target of Kim Jong-un's latest purges.

However, the South Korean newspaper, Chosun Ilbo reported that Kim Kyong-hui had been suffering a variety of maladies and afflictions for years before her death. She was known to have had cancer problems for almost thirty years, and also had to travel to Russia in 2011 and Singapore in 2012 for several heart complications and related medical conditions. Her health conditions worsened after her only daughter and child Jang Kum-song committed suicide in 2006 in Paris, France, which caused her to enter into deep depression and turn to alcoholism to try to quell it. According to The Diplomat, there were also speculations that her relationship with her husband Jang Song-thaek was rather rocky until Kim Jong-un executed his uncle during the purge last month of the Korean Workers' Party. It is, however, impossible to verify the exact causes of her death as the North Korean state press is tightly controlled; the South Korean government's report that it was due to either heart attack or suicide has therefore led to much speculation.

She made a last public appearance alongside Kim Jong-Un and his wife Ri Sol-ju at a concert September 10, which was responsible for confirming the rumors about her failing health. On December 17, it was reported that she was not able to attend the ceremonies concerning the death of her brother Kim Jong-Il, and an empty seat presumably meant for her was left adjacent to Kim Jong-Un's.

Overall, the loss of one of the most influential figures of the North Korean regime may yet prove a deep blow to the power of the young dictator.