Tuesday, voters in Indiana and North Carolina of the United States cast their votes in the tightly contested presidential primaries of the Democratic Party. 


The Associated Press declared Barack Obama the winner in the North Carolina Democratic primary, based on exit-polling data, and CNN has also projected that Obama will win the North Carolina primary and take the majority of its 115 delegates. Reuters also reported Obama winning in North Carolina, and described his current national status as an "almost unassailable lead in pledged delegates".

In North Carolina, Obama has won with 56% of the vote; whereas Clinton has claimed 41% of the vote.

72 delegates were at stake in Indiana, a state which Foon Rhee of The Boston Globe described as "a must-win" for Hillary Clinton. Voter turnout was high in Indiana, and a judge ordered some of the state's polling locations to remain open past closing time due to long lines of people waiting to vote. 

Counting of the results was also delayed as returns from Lake County, a county which is considered a Obama stronghold because of the county's large African-American population and its close proximity to Chicago were waited upon. Around 12:30 the results came through and which brought Obama 17,000 votes closer to Clinton, leading to a 2% margin over Obama. This was in contrast to earlier in the night when the polls first closed and Clinton lead over Obama in the double digits.


Both candidates made speeches, Clinton, speaking in Indianapolis, thanked her supporters and asked them to contribute money, noting "Tonight, I need your help to continue this journey." She also told supporters "Tonight, we have come from behind, we have broken the tie and, thanks to you, it is full speed on to the White House!"

Obama, who spoke to supporters in North Carolina, held a speech which dealt with division within the Democratic Party. Obama said that the party would not be "inalterably divided" noting that pundits are saying that "Senator Clinton's supporters will not support me, and that my supporters will not support her."


"I'm here tonight to tell you that I don't believe it. Yes, there have been bruised feelings on both sides. Yes, each side desperately wants their candidate to win. But ultimately, this race is not about Hillary Clinton or Barack Obama or John McCain. This election is about you — the American people — and whether we will have a president and a party that can lead us toward a brighter future."

Obama also mentioned that, "We cannot afford to give John McCain a chance to serve out George Bush's third term. We need change in America and that is why we will be united in November."

187 delegate votes, 115 delegates in North Carolina and the 72 in Indiana, were at stake and there are only five more states that will be voting after this. Puerto Rico also gets to cast its votes on June 1, 2008.