Virtual-reality technology company Oculus revealed a prototype of its latest "Oculus Rift" VR headset on Wednesday, codenamed "Crystal Cove". The headset reportedly features several improvements over past virtual reality technology, the most notable of which is the addition of positional tracking and "an OLED display that features low persistence" of vision, according to Polygon. Benefits of the newer positional tracking system include allowing players the ability to lean forward in order to read text or take closer scans of different objects. It required an external camera to watch the LEDs on the headset along with some associated infrared dots on the headset.

While previous prototypes from Oculus Rift traditionally used LCD screens, the new OLED technology will reduce the potential latency that gave many end-users motion-sickness. To accomplish this, the OLED screen has a higher refresh rate than normal for its pixels. The reduction in potential latency was from sixty milliseconds to thirty milliseconds, but Oculus has indicated plans to further reduce the latency to a range between sixteen and twenty milliseconds, Joystiq reports. Oculus CEO Brendan Iribe however qualifies "This is just a feature prototype," and that developments to the positional tracking system and OLED technology are always subject to changes.

Oculus has recently unraveled the prototype for a demonstration at the Consumer Electronics Show along with Epic Games' Unreal Engine 4 featuring a tower defense-styled game. Other players competing in the Virtual Reality market include Google Inc.'s Google Glass, and the software giant stated that it will bring support for prescription lens sometime in 2014. Technology giants Microsoft and Apple have also indicated their own plans to enter the market at the end of 2013, with Microsoft testing prototypes of what it terms "internet-connected eyewear" and Apple rumoured to have patented their own set of Apple Goggles. Concluding this report, Oculus Vice President of Products Nate Mitchell says "we have nothing to announce at this time, but I think 2014 really is going to be a big, big year for VR."