After a deliberation of around thirteen hours late last night, a Clark County, Nevada jury convicted University of Southern California alumnus O. J. Simpson and an accomplice of twelve criminal charges. This comes thirteen years to the day after the widely publicised "trial of the century" acquitted him of the 1994 murder of Nicole Brown and Ron Goldman. Simpson, a retired American football player, former car-rental promoter, and actor, was on trial for multiple serious crimes stemming from a violent room-invasion robbery and kidnapping incident that occurred at the Palace Station resort in Las Vegas during the evening of September 13, 2007.

Simpson was remanded and taken into custody immediately and was taken from the courtroom in handcuffs after the verdicts were read. Depending on the sentence handed down, he may end up imprisoned for the rest of his natural life.

He was found guilty on a total of twelve counts. Count one was for "Conspiracy to Commit a Crime." This conviction could result in up to twelve years imprisonment.

Count two was "Conspiracy to Commit Kidnapping," while the third offence he was convicted of was "Conspiracy to Commit Robbery." Both of these crimes will result in sentences of one to six years imprisonment.

The fourth count "Burglary with a Deadly Weapon." This conviction could result in anything from two to fifteen years imprisonment for Simpson.

The fifth and sixth convictions were both for "First-degree Kidnapping with a Deadly Weapon." For the two convictions combined, Simpson will receive a sentence of 30 years or life imprisonment.

Counts seven and eight regard Robbery with a Deadly Weapon. Each conviction could result of a prison sentence of between three and 30 years.

Section nine and ten regard assault with a deadly weapon, and they carry a penalty of one to six years imprisonment, while the final two convictions are for coercion with a deadly weapon, and carry the same penalty.

During the high-profile kidnapping and robbery trial, Simpson found himself in trouble with court officials. Ordered under the terms of his bail to have no contact with fellow defendants or witnesses, he violated this in a foul-languaged message left for his bail bondsman. Miguel Pereira of "You Ring We Spring" received the expletive-laden message intended for his co-defendant, which the prosecutor, Chris Owens, claimed was threatening.