American celebutante and businesswoman Paris Hilton has bashed a recent presidential campaign ad by 2008 U.S. presidential hopeful John McCain in which he compared his rival Barack Obama to celebrities such as Hilton and Britney Spears. In McCain's TV ad, it was stated that Obama was "the biggest celebrity in the world."

Hilton recorded and uploaded a video to comedy website Funny or Die, in which she mocked McCain by calling him a "wrinkly white-haired guy."

"Hey America. I am Paris Hilton, and I am a celebrity too," she states at the beginning of the video, but not before images of the Star Wars character Yoda and the cast of The Golden Girls are paraded across the screen apparently comparing the characters to McCain.

"Only I am not from the olden days, and I am not promising change like 'that other guy'. I'm just hot," remarked Hilton, adding, "I guess I am running for president," since McCain's TV ad showed her.
McCain's advertisement, released early this week, states, "Is the biggest celebrity in the world ready to help your family?" According to the Boston Globe and video displayed on its website, the narrator then points out that "the real Obama promises higher taxes, more government spending. So, fewer jobs."

Bill Burton, a spokesman for Obama, responded to the ad: "Is the biggest proponent of George Bush’s tired, failed policies ready to bring about change? Another day brings another dishonest attack from John McCain. While Senator McCain knows that Senator Obama has proposed cutting taxes for 95% of American families, what he’s not telling us is that he wants to give $4 billion in tax breaks to the oil companies, continue giving tax breaks to corporations that ship our job overseas, and provide no direct tax relief for more than 100 million middle-class families."

Hilton appears in good spirits in her video and even thanks McCain for endorsing her. "So thanks for the endorsement white-haired dude. And I want America to know, that I am like totally ready to lead."