The final farewell train in the first series of Shinkansen super-express, called zero-kei (0 Series), ran through western Japan Sunday afternoon from Shin-Osaka to Hakata. 0 Series has served in Japan since 1964 , undergoing some model changes , and was retired from regular runs at the end of the last month. Extra farewell runs were scheduled for three days, with all seats allowed to be reserved , and this was the final run. 

On Sunday in Shin-Osaka station, a farewell ceremony for Shinkansen 0 Series began at 14:30, where those who contributed to its debut were invited . Around 14:45, the train slowly appeared to enter Track 20. The head and tail cars changed roles, and the train got ready by 14:48 as HIKARI 347 bound for Hakata. And, at 14:56, blowing a long horn , the 0-Series train left for the final trip. 

Japanese news media report that approximately 2,800 people gathered to see off the final departure , so did many in the stations the train stopped by . Lastly, the train arrived at Hakata as scheduled at 18:01, welcomed by about 1,600 fans. 



Shinkansen network was launched on 1 October 1964, just before Tokyo Olympic Games , with a route connecting the capital Tokyo and Osaka City (now operated by JR-Central). The route for 0-Series trains was gradually extended to the west, which in 1975 reached Hakata area of Fukuoka City (now by JR-West). 

Shinkansen 0 Series has a characteristic round face with a part like a shallow bowl, and was nicknamed "dango-bana" or "dangoppana" (literally, "dumpling nose"). At the time of its debut, 0 Series ran at a maximum speed of 210 km/h, which was the world's highest . HIKARI, meaning beam or light, was the name of trains for the faster service. Even while more modern and faster series were rising, 0 Series continued to serve for some years, but in 1999 it ceased from JR-Central services, and in March 2000 from regular HIKARI runs of JR-West .

According to the media, remaining 0-Series Shinkansen cars are destined to be scrapped . Some other cars, which were withdrawn earlier, are preserved in museums including one in Osaka and National Railway Museum in the U.K.