Six people have died as the result of an aircraft crash in Cork, Republic of Ireland. Flight No MN7100 involved a Manx2 aircraft travelling from Belfast in Northern Ireland, United Kingdom at 0812 UTC with ten passengers and two crew members onboard the flight.

The plane crashed at Cork Airport after a third attempt to land the aircraft there at approximately 1000 UTC, which resulted in the vehicle impacting with Runway 17, turning upside down and catching fire, approximately 1000 feet along the runway. At the time of this incident, the weather was largely foggy, with little visibility.

 Eight fire engines soon arrived at the scene. The accident resulted in six fatalities, two of them Irish citizens, three of them British and one of them Spanish. One of those killed was Brendan McAleese, the cousin of the husband of Irish president Mary McAleese. The remaining six of the twelve occupants were injured, according to a spokesperson for the Cork County Council. All of those that were injured were transported to Cork University Hospital. Four are reported to be in a severe condition at present. The remaining two individuals are said to be "comfortable".

A statement released from the Irish Aviation Authority (IAA) said: "The aircraft made an approach to Runway 17 in low visibility conditions and went around and did not land and attempted a second landing on Runway 35. The aircraft then went around a second time and came back for an approach to Runway 17. On the second approach to Runway 17 the aircraft crashed, rescue and fire crew are in attendance. There is a fire and debris has been scattered onto the runway and over a wide area." The IAA also announced the launch of an investigation.

Brian Cowen, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Ireland, commented that his "thoughts are with all of those affected by this morning's crash, including the families and friends of those who have died. I also want to send my best wishes and those of the government, to all of those who survived the crash and are being treated in hospital at present."