In Australia, New South Wales police have released photographs of up to 20 men who are of interest in connection with the race riots in the Sydney suburb of Cronulla in December, 2005.

Strike Force Enoggera detectives have been vigourously investigating the riots over the past few months. Police have reportedly shown photographs at schools, pubs and clubs in an attempt to identify those who they are looking for.

Detective Superintendent Ken McKay told the media on February 23, 2006 that they wanted "people who were involved in assaults, throwing missiles and damaging vehicles at Cronulla on December 11 to come forward and hand themselves into police". He warned them that they would have around 10 days before the photos would be released publicly.

According to a statement on NSW Police's website, police have exhausted all other investigative angles and have released the photos "of excellent quality and predominantly from news organisations" in an attempt to gain information from the general public.

In addition to the photographs, police will release a video showing "a large number of Middle Eastern males and vehicles that police wish to identify in relation to their behaviour on the night of December 12." according to NSW Police. The videos have been supplied to police by witnesses. One was filmed at a service station in Cronulla and the other was filmed on the corner of The Kingsway in Cronulla. The vehicle was a hatchback with a rear P-plate.

Of late, two further arrests have been made in relation to the Cronulla riots. A 27-year-old man handed himself into police at Penrith, yesterday and was subsequently charged with two counts of riot and affray.

On February 27, 2006, police arrested a 23-year-old man at his home in Cronulla. He was charged with hinder police and police allege that he tried to prevent police from arresting another man during the Cronulla riots.

So far, 66 people have been arrested in connection with the riots. Police say "anyone who can assist the strikeforce in identifying these people or if they have any other information in regards to riots and revenge attacks at Cronulla, Maroubra and Brighton is urged to contact Crimestoppers on 1800 333 000..."