After an investigation by the Portland, Oregon weekly newspaper Willamette Week, mayor Sam Adams admitted he did have a sexual relationship with Beau Breedlove in 2005. The openly gay mayor said Breedlove was 18 years of age when the sexual relationship began, however the two met when Breedlove was still a minor. Adams also admitted he previously lied about the relationship and asked Breedlove to also lie about the relationship during the time Adams was running for mayor. The Oregon Attorney General's office is investigating the matter.

"In the past, I have characterized my relationship with Beau Breedlove as purely nonsexual. That is not true. Beau Breedlove and I had a sexual relationship for a few months in the summer of 2005 after he turned 18 years of age. I want to apologize to the people of Portland for my dishonesty and for embarrassing them. My job now is to come clean — I mucked it up — and to press forward," said Adams in a statement to the media.

Newspapers such as The Oregonian, Just Out, the Portland Tribune, and the Portland Business Journal, as well as the Portland Police Union have called for Adams to resign. Others such as city commissioner Randy Leonard and Multnomah County district attorney Michael Schrunk want an investigation to be launched into Adams' actions. Portland commissioner Randy Leonard expressed distraught when he heard Adams had lied about the relationship. Leonard previously defended Adams when the allegations first came to light. There are also allegations that Breedlove was only 17 when the sexual relationship started, bringing up memories of the sex scandal that tainted former mayor Neil Goldschmidt's legacy after he admitted to sex with his 14-year-old babysitter.

"The part I'm having trouble with is the thing he did was to ask the young man to lie. That I'm having a hard time understanding," said Leonard in a statement. Adams has no plans to resign as mayor.

Breedlove met Adams in April 2005 at the Oregon State Capitol when Breedlove was an intern for then Oregon House of Representatives member Kim Thatcher. Breedlove sought Adams out for advice on coming out of the closet. Later, the two spent time together and Adams attended Breedlove's 18th birthday party.

Rumors of a sexual relationship surfaced in the fall of 2007, but Adams denied any sexual relationship at that time. Adams is currently in a relationship with reporter Peter Zuckerman.