A proposed hotel that was supposed to be built at the corner of Elmwood and Forest Avenues in Buffalo, New York is apparently off the table. The former proposal was going to be called The Elmwood Village Hotel and would have consisted of 72 rooms and cost between $7 to $10 million American dollars to build. 

 Today several unknown individuals were seen removing a sign that was dedicated to the "Elmwood Village Gateway," which signifies the beginning of the Elmwood Village at the formerly proposed project's location.

Nearly an hour later the men replaced the sign with a different and unexpected sign: "For Sale: 5 commercial parcels and 1 carriage house, By: Owner." Those 5 "parcels" are 1109-1121 Elmwood and 999 Forest Avenue, which is located in an illegal alley, according to the City of Buffalo, behind the 5 other properties on Elmwood. Hans Mobius owns all properties named in the sale.

Sam Savarino, CEO of Savarino Companies never owned the properties and has repeatadly told Wikinews in exclusive interviews that he still had a "contract to buy the properties" and on October 2, 2006 told Wikinews in an exclusive interview that he "extended" the "agreement to purchase the property[s] and will have it under contract for what we hope is a sufficient period of time."

"He [Mobius] is undoubtedly concerned because he has lost some tenants and is a bit impatient. I think he has properly portrayed the situation," said Savarino in an exclusive interview with Wikinews.

Savarino also says that there may be "legal issues" to work out now, before anything else can move forward, regarding the proposal.

"There are some legal complexities that must be sorted out before anything can happen there," added Savarino.

 The welcome sign was; however, not removed entirely. The sign was placed, facing the same direction of north, on the side of the Forest Plaza Art Gallery, a new art gallery located on the corner of Forest and Elmwood.

Nancy Pollina, owner of Don Apparel which was located at 1109 Elmwood, but closed on October 14, 2006 considers this a possible "victory" in regards to the lawsuit filed against the hotel to stop it from being built, alleging that several laws were broken, including not performing an Environmental Impact Study before the proposal was approved by the city, during its approval and the proposal was "rushed." Patricia Morris, who operates Don Apparel with Pollina, Angeline Genovese and Evelyn Bencinich, owners of residences on Granger Place which abut the rear of the proposed site, Nina Freudenheim, a resident of nearby Penhurst Park, and Sandra Girage, the owner of a two-family residence on Forest Avenue less than a hundred feet from the proposed hotel's sole entrance and exit driveway, were also plaintiffs in the lawsuit. They filed the suit with a lawyer representing them, Arthur J. Giacalone, on April 25, 2006 in New York State Supreme Court, but the case has never gone to a courtroom.

Giacalone believes that a press release issued in July regarding the project was nothing but a statement to "save face," but that the placement of the for sale sign might be a way of convincing Savarino to speed up the sale of the properties.

"I thought all along that Savarino’s July press release might be no more than an effort to save face. But we have no way of knowing. Similarly, Mobius might have put the for-sale sign up in an attempt to pressure Savarino into closing the deal. There’s no way to tell," said Giacalone in an exclusive interview with Wikinews.

In regards to the lawsuit, Giacalone thinks it may now be in "limbo."

"The lawsuit still sits in limbo," added Giacalone.