Bayern Munich hosted Real Madrid at the Allianz Arena today in the second leg of the Champions League round of sixteen. The first leg saw Real coming out on top 3-2, but the two away goals by Bayern gave them a good chance in the second leg. Madrid were without David Beckham for the game, who orchestrated all 3 goals in the first leg, and he was replaced in the midfield by Raúl. Bayern played a strong side, with Lucas Podolski and Roy Makaay in attack, and Owen Hargreaves in the midfield.

Any plans Real had made for the game went immediately out the window when Roy Makaay scored the fastest ever goal in a Champions League match after only 10 seconds. Real took the kickoff, and Roberto Carlos was immediately dispossessed by Salihamidzic, who passed in the ball to Makaay. The German striker neatly finished passed Iker Casillas to stun the Galacticos, and give the home side the lead. Bayern continued to press, and Real looked listless, as shots from Podolski and Makaay were saved by Casillas. Real coach Fabio Capello was quick to make changes in his team, and sent on Guti in place of Emerson. Casillas was again forced into action as van Buyten headed Sagnol's free kick towards the goal, but the keeper got down well to make the stop. Madrid finally began to play like a team, and substitute Guti had a chance after a neat backheel by Higuain found him, but the shot flew wide. Real continued pressing, and Dutchman Ruud van Nistelrooy headed a ball towards the net, but Oliver Kahn was easily able to cope with the low power effort. Raúl then struck an acrobatic effort towards the goal, but found only the side netting.

After the restart, Real looked shaky at the back again as van Bommel found his way in on goal, but Casillas was again on hand to snuff out the danger. Oliver Kahn was then forced into action at the other end, as he pushed out a van Nistelrooy header off of a cross by Raúl. Bayern had a penalty claim, but were denied by referee Lubos Michel. It didn't matter however, and the resulting corner was met by Lucio's head, doubling Bayerns lead. Bayern had another chance minutes later, but a open header by Salihamidzic went wide. Raúl then had a chance for Real, but his header was directed straight to Kahn. Ruud van Nistelrooy was then denied a run on goal after a mistaken offside call was given by the linesman. On 80 minutes, Robinho was hauled down by van Bommel in the penalty area, and Real was awarded a penalty. Marco van Bommel was consequently given his second yellow of the match for arguing the point, and was sent off along with Diarra of Real for his part in the confrontation. Once everything settled, van Nistelrooy stepped up to the spot and sent the ball into the net, cutting the lead in half, but still leaving Real behind on aggregate. The game finished dramatically, as Ramos thought he had scored to tie the game, but the referee correctly judged that a hand had been used in the build up, and the goal was not counted. The game ended in a win for Bayern, and they will go on to the next round, while Real is left to focus on domestic play.