Quiznos, a fast food restaurant chain that specializes in selling submarine sandwiches, has aired a controversial television commercial, with an extended version only appearing in the late-night lineups. The commercial is a promotion for the company's new sandwich, the 'Toasty Torpedo'. Bob Sassone, a writer for TVSquad.com, argues that it is homosexually themed and compares it to pornography.

The commercial begins with a toaster oven talking to Scott, a Quiznos sandwich maker, in a male voice. "Scott, I want you to do something," says the toaster to Scott. As he takes a bite of a Torpedo and appears to look in the direction of his genitals, Scott says to the toaster, "[sic] not doing that again. That burned." The toaster replies, "We both enjoyed that."

Later in the commercial, the toaster asks Scott to make one of the sandwiches and says the price of it is "sexy" and then "sexier." Scott grins and does so. The toaster then asks Scott to "stick it in me". The sandwich just happens to be 12 inches long, giving the appearance of a special relationship between Scott and the toaster oven.

Quiznos published a press release on March 24 announcing the new line of sandwiches. They stated that their price of US$4 helps to ease the economic pinch. In a statement to Wikinews Quiznos stated that their commercials are within the company's character and they were designed to get people talking.

"We developed our new ads to be consistent with the Quiznos brand and to get people excited about our new Toasty Torpedoes. Some of the ads are edgy and provocative, but they're well within the confines of the Quiznos brand character," said Rebecca Steinfort, chief marketing officer for Quiznos to Wikinews.

"Since Quiznos has a broad range of consumers that eat at its more than 4,500 restaurants nationwide, we tailor our commercials to be relevant and appeal to our diverse customers - all of whom are watching different kinds of programming. The new ads are fun and entertaining, and the edginess and innuendo of the ads are designed to get people talking about our new Toasty Torpedoes, and that's exactly what we want: people to talk and taste our new sandwiches," added Steinfort. 

Bob Sassone a writer for TVSquad.com, one of the Internet's top television weblogs, compared the commercial to a pornography film.

"The new Quizno's commercial is probably the closest we'll get to a gay porn flick in a mainstream sub shop ad," Sassone wrote.

In 2007, the company made another controversial commercial. It featured people on the street eating samples of a Quiznos 'Prime Rib Dinner' sandwich. They promoted it as having a lot of "meat" and near the end it featured two women eating a sandwich saying, "It's not lacking any meat. And that's what real women need".

"Nevertheless, Quiznos remains committed to providing its customers with high-quality ingredients at everyday lower prices, all with excellent service. As such, we encourage consumers to give feedback on the commercials to our corporate marketing department through the website," said Steinfort.