Governments must take measures to avert another human rights crisis at sea now. With monsoon season ended, thousands of people from Myanmar and Bangladesh are expected to embark on a new boat journey across the Andaman Sea and the Bay of Bengal. 

This occurred in May this year when thousands of Rohingya refugees who had fled their homes in Myanmar due to violence and persecution were stranded at sea for weeks. They were abused and abandoned by people traffickers and ignored by governments in the region. It is expected that hundreds, maybe thousands, died and this needs to be stopped by governments in the area now, before they begin to embark on these journeys within the next weeks or months. 

Steps must be taken to combat trafficking and protect Rohingya from abuses. Measures to be taken include protecting those fleeing persecution in Southeast Asia, combating people trafficking, assisting with coordinated search and rescue efforts, and ratifying and Refugee Convention. 

The Rohingya, an ethnic minority group, have faced decades of abuse in Myanmar, where serious violence has displaced over 100,000 Rohingya inside Myanmar and forced tens of thousands to flee to neighbouring countries. 

Mass graves were found on the Thai-Malaysia border when Rohingya fleeing violence and abuse had been smuggled to camps, locked in cages and held for ransom. Many starved to death if their families could not pay the money. 

When the graves were discovered Thai authorities cracked down, which led to a second tragedy for those already on boats en-route to Thailand, as smugglers abandoned thousands on Rohingya at sea as they realised they could no longer un-load their human cargo in Thailand. 

The abuse at the hands of the smugglers was horrifying. Almost everyone on board the boats experienced or witnesses beatings of men, women and children. “All describes horrendous conditions on board the boats, where hundreds were crammed in so tight they were forced to squat side by side. If they tried to stand, they would be beaten,” said Graham Thom, refugee coordinator for Amnesty International Australia. 

In August Amnesty Internal visited those taken in by Indonesia and were able to get firsthand accounts of what happened. They now ask for Governments in the area to take action, as boats are believed to set sail again, now at the end of monsoon season.