Pole Robert Kubica won the FIA Formula One 2008 Grand Prix du Canada at Circuit Gilles Villeneuve, Ile Notre Dame, Montreal, Canada. He and his teammate Nick Heidfeld made a double for BMW Sauber team for the first time in history of this sport.

Peter Sauber first started building sport cars in 1970. His team made it's Formula-1 debut in 1993. The team was handed over to BMW after 2005 and now it's team principal is Mario Theissen.

Nick Heidfeld also came second in the previous year race won by Lewis Hamilton. It was a race when Kubica suffered a violent crash. David Coulthard was the best of Renault-engined cars finishing third for Red Bull.

The race was thrilled after Adrian Sutil suffered his Force India car failure and caused a safety car to appear. This happened right before the scheduled first pit-stops and 5 drivers who were in the lead rushed to refuel themselves after the pit lane became open. Still, the pit lane exit remained closed and Robert Kubica with Kimi Räikkönen (Ferrari) stopped in front of the red sign. But Lewis Hamilton did not. He crashed hard into the back of Räikkönen and jammed the exit for the drivers behind. This cleared the cards for BMW team to win the race.

The pace car also gave the lucky chance for Toyota drivers, who were not very competitive in qualifying on Saturday, starting 11th and 14th. Timo Glock made up 4th after holding Felipe Massa (Ferrari) pushed him from behind. Jarno Trulli could also finished in front of Massa, but Timo braked hard on his teammate and Jarno was forced to let Massa pass him.

Rubens Barrichello (Honda) finished 7th. Heikki Kovalainen (Vodafone McLaren Mercedes) pushed hard on Sebastian Vettel but German kept his position and scored 1 point for Toro Rosso.

It should be noted that Kubica won the race after he finished second in the previous Monaco GP won by Hamilton. Kubica now leads the drivers' championship with 42 points, chased by Hamilton and Massa with 38 points both, Räikkönen with 35 points and Heidfeld with 28. BMW Sauber now stayed close to Ferrari in constructors' standings with 70 points, gap of 3 to Ferrari. Team McLaren is now a distant third with 53 points.