Today The Sydney Morning Herald reported, “Nazi ideology and Islam-phobia are being used to stoke hatred of more than a million Rohingyas in Myanmar’s western Rakhine state, according to the findings of an 18-month investigation.”

State level officials and Buddhist monks are orchestrating the mass annihilation of the Rohingya, say researchers at Queen Mary University of London. 

From leaked government documents, researchers have uncovered evidence that the persecution of the stateless Rohingya – including enclosing them into ghettos, sporadic massacres and restrictions on movements – amounts to a longer term strategy by Myanmar’s government to isolate, weaken and eliminate the group. 

According to Sydney Morning herald reporter Lindsay Murdoch, researchers have found “Nazi and SS paraphernalia such as t-shirts and helmets in official documents of the Arakan National Party, a Rahkine party.” 

Researchers said, “Copies of Adolf Hitler’s manifesto Mein Kampf are being sold on Rakhine’s streets.” 

Professor Penny Green, director of the initiative, said weakened and traumatized Rohingyas in camps and ghettos "endure the barest of lives and denial of basic human rights, with the ever-present fear of attack."

Amnesty International and other human rights groups have warned of an imminent humanitarian disaster as Rohingya families take to unsafe people-smuggler boats to escape Myanmar now that the monsoon season has ended in the Bay of Bengal.

Amnesty International states “Governments must take measures to avert another human rights crisis at sea now.” With monsoon season ended, thousands of people from Myanmar and Bangladesh are expected to embark on a new boat journey across the Andaman Sea and the Bay of Bengal. 

Amnesty believes that measures must be taken to combat trafficking and protect Rohingya from abuses. Measures to be taken include protecting those fleeing persecution in Southeast Asia, combating people trafficking, assisting with coordinated search and rescue efforts, and ratifying and Refugee Convention.