Rupert Grint, best known for playing Ron Weasley in the Harry Potter films, has now recovered from the H1N1 swine flu virus after missing some days on the set for the latest installment of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows.

Unrelated to Grint's illness, the World Health Organisation (WHO) is currently investigating a strain of the flu virus which appears to be resisting the anti-viral drug Tamiflu. An unnamed 16-year-old traveling between San Francisco and Hong Kong was released from hospital after one week following her arrival in Hong Kong. Officials are following up on her contacts to trace the source of contagion.

Danish and Japanese authorities have also identified two other people who have come down with H1N1 flu virus following anti-viral flu treatments.

Currently there are 5,254 reported cases of H1N1 flu across Australia with ten dying from the flu. Officials say "those numbers are increasing, we think they're increasing much faster than that across New South Wales and indeed across the country"

Canada has had 33 H1N1 flu deaths and close to 7,900 reported cases.

New Zealand officials report close to 950 people who have contracted the H1N1 flu virus and confirmed its first death related to the virus. The Chief Coroner feels the virus may have contributed to the deaths of two others as well. The New Zealand director of public health said the "swine flu will be a mild illness but in some instances the infection can cause more severe illness and, in a few tragic instances, death."

Bulgaria's Minister of Health reported two young boys who are under quarantine after falling ill with H1N1 flu virus after traveling to the U.S., and Saudi Arabia respectively. Bulgaria has now had ten H1N1 flu cases.

Altogether over 70,000 persons worldwide have come down with the H1N1 flu, as confirmed through testing, and there have been over 300 registered deaths attributable to the virus.

Margaret Chan, WHO spokesperson said, "As we see today, with well over 100 countries reporting cases, once a fully fit pandemic virus emerges, its further international spread is unstoppable." This sentiment has been repeated by the United Nations health official. 

The UK health secretary, Andy Burnham has forecast over 100,000 H1N1 flu virus cases per day before September 1.