Shortly after an extended question and answer session last night, anti-war activist Cindy Sheehan easily secured an endorsement from the San Francisco Green Party as nominative challenger to the Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi in California's 8th congressional district.

Sheehan answered a wide variety of questions helping to overcome a common perception that she is a one-issue candidate. Sheehan emphasized the stance for which she is famous, regarding ending the War in Iraq and dramatically reducing the amount of money spent by the Pentagon, explaining that the United States' founders intended for us to have militia, not a multi-trillion dollar military used for "corporate imperialism."
 
She also demonstrated a knowledge in a variety of topics that are important to party members, underscoring a commitment to the Green Party's "10 Key Values," while acknowledging that her campaign's platform on indigenous rights is still being developed. 

She stressed her differences from speaker Pelosi's positions, and reaffirmed her belief that Pelosi has been complicit in maintaining the US presence in Iraq. Sheehan pointed out that she presently lives in the district, whereas Pelosi only recently purchased a home in Pacific Heights, her first in San Francisco. Pelosi has often been criticized for her absence from the district she represents. Sheehan provided an understanding of local issues, including the recent Hunter's Point controversy, reiterating her commitment to "affordable housing, better mass transit, alleviating traffic, dependence on fossil fuels, [and] rent control."

On the 9/11 World Trade Center attacks, Sheehan said, "I've never said it's been an inside job, I'm not convinced of that," but asserted that there are questions about the attacks that still need to be answered that only an independent, thorough investigation could provide. 

Sheehan is receiving support from independent presidential candidate Ralph Nader and expected Green Party candidate Cynthia McKinney. When asked whom she would endorse for president, Sheehan replied, "It's a tossup between Ralph and Cynthia."

Cindy Sheehan is still collecting the signatures needed to get on the ballot by the July filing date, but is expected to gain a substantial amount at the Gay Pride celebrations in the upcoming weeks. Sheehan is not running as a Green Party candidate, and has the endorsement of the local Peace and Freedom Party. 

Also present was Barry Hermason, Green Party candidate for California's 12th district, which includes most of the south-west quarter of San Francisco.