Women's rights advocate and Georgetown University Law Center graduate Sandra Fluke has been named as a candidate by Time magazine for their Person of the Year.



Sandra Fluke was the focus of media in February after attempting to testify before a Republican-controlled committee in the United States House of Representatives about contraception and women's health. Kate Pickert of Time wrote in her profile, "Fluke ... weathered the attention with poise and maturity and emerged as a political celebrity." 



Time concluded Fluke helped give U.S. President Barack Obama an edge in his presidential re-election campaign: "Democrats gave her a national-convention speaking slot as part of their push to make reproductive rights a central issue in the 2012 presidential campaign — one that helped Barack Obama trounce Mitt Romney among single women on Election Day."


Fluke responded to the nomination via Twitter, and stated she was "Honored to be listed for Time's Person of Year". In the same statement she also drew attention to the scarcity of women on the list of candidates.

An analysis of Fluke's candidacy by Peter Roff of U.S. News &amp; World Report called attention to her role in the political phenomenon in the recent election cycle known as the "War on Women" which drew significant attention to issues of women's rights. Roff gave advice to the Republican party on the way it relates to women, "Once the Republicans become comfortable talking about all issues as though they were women's issues too — issues like unemployment, economic growth, job creation, education, and healthcare as well as the so-called social issues — they will be demonstrating that women have a home in the GOP. Until they do however it will be the Sandra Flukes of the world that continue to carry the day when it counts."

Journalist Leslie Marshall observed some conservative political commentators were critical of Time for its nomination of Fluke for Person of the Year. 



Marshall argued Fluke belongs on the list: "She should be credited with reminding women on both the right and the left; that many of us agree on the issue of women's reproductive rights. Although some of us might be Democrats and some Republicans, our gender unites us. She brought more women to the polls, reminding us of the decades it took to be where we are and what was at stake for women if we did not re-elect President Obama. In speaking at the Democratic National Convention, she showed true strength over adversity. And she has since become a women's health activist. For these reasons alone, she belongs on this list."

However, Marshall stated she wouldn't be voting for Fluke's candidacy, but would instead cast her ballot for Malala Yousafzai, a 15-year-old female education activist who survived a Taliban assassination attempt.

Fluke was a featured speaker on September 5 at the 2012 Democratic National Convention in Charlotte, North Carolina. Fluke spoke to attendees at the convention about the consequences for women of electing Republican candidate for U.S. President, Mitt Romney, over incumbent President Barack Obama. Fluke has campaigned with President Obama in his bid for re-election.

She was recognized April 22 with the Stand Up for Choice Award. Fluke was given the Stand Up for Choice Award at the "Third Annual Multi-Generational Brunch" of the organization NARAL Pro-Choice America which was held in New York City (NYC), New York in the United States. 

Fluke received a nomination in March as a candidate for Time magazine's 100 most influential people in the world. The list is released annually as a special edition of Time magazine, titled Time 100.

She gave testimony to the US Congress on February 23 before the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee at a hearing about women's health and contraception. She also worked for Sanctuary for Families in NYC which worked to crack down on human trafficking and domestic violence.