Women's rights advocate and Georgetown University law student Sandra Fluke was recognized Sunday, April 22 with the Stand Up for Choice Award. Fluke was given the Stand Up for Choice Award at the "Third Annual Multi-Generational Brunch" of the organization NARAL Pro-Choice America which was held in New York City (NYC), New York in the United States. 




The organization's president, Nancy Keenan, attended the event and had previously spoken in favor of Fluke in a press release announcing the award. "Sandra is a remarkable leader and a true hero in the reproductive-rights community. This event brings together women and men from many generations, and the one thing that unites us all is the personal stories that are the reason for our joining this cause. Without a doubt, many people have witnessed Sandra's strength over these last few weeks and have been inspired to join her in standing up for women's freedom and privacy."

Chair of the NARAL Pro-Choice America’s Future Direction Committee Amanda Hirsh released a statement in support of Fluke saying, "we are thrilled to honor Sandra Fluke with the Stand Up For Choice Award at this year's multi-generational brunch. Attempts to silence voices like Sandra's have failed. Young leaders across the country are looking to Sandra as an inspiration."


Fluke responded to a post on Twitter from NARAL congratulating her on receiving the award, stating, "I was honored to receive it! Thank you! I'm very humbled by the inspiring stories women told of their own lives."

Fluke received a nomination in March as a candidate for Time magazine's 100 most influential people in the world. The list is released annually as a special edition of Time magazine, titled Time 100.

She gave testimony to the US Congress on February 23 before the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee on a hearing about women's health and contraception. She also worked for Sanctuary for Families in NYC which worked to crackdown on human trafficking and domestic violence.