Women's rights advocate and Georgetown University Law Center graduate Sandra Fluke was a featured speaker Wednesday at the 2012 Democratic National Convention in Charlotte, North Carolina. 



Fluke spoke to attendees at the convention about the consequences for women of electing Republican candidate for U.S. President, Mitt Romney, over incumbent President Barack Obama. Fluke has campaigned with President Obama in his bid for re-election.



She encouraged listeners to her speech to use their vote for the next U.S. President as a voice, stating, "I'm here because I spoke out, and this November, each of us must speak out."

Fluke contrasted possible scenarios which could result from a Republican-controlled White House with that of President Obama's administration's support of women's issues, and commented, "During this campaign, we've heard about the two profoundly different futures that could await women -- and how one of those futures looks like an offensive, obsolete relic of our past."


She concluded her remarks by asserting that Mitt Romney would not place emphasis on women's rights, observing, "And six months from now, we'll all be living in one, or the other. But only one. A country where our president either has our back or turns his back." 

Fluke's speech was well received throughout by the audience, and garnered her a standing ovation from the crowd. After her speech, Fluke took to Twitter to thank convention participants for the positive reaction she received, tweeting, "#DNC2012, THANK YOU for such a warm welcome! But thank you more for standing for #women!"

She was recognized April 22 with the Stand Up for Choice Award. Fluke was given the Stand Up for Choice Award at the "Third Annual Multi-Generational Brunch" of the organization NARAL Pro-Choice America which was held in New York City (NYC), New York in the United States. 

Fluke received a nomination in March as a candidate for Time magazine's 100 most influential people in the world. The list is released annually as a special edition of Time magazine, titled Time 100.

She gave testimony to the US Congress on February 23 before the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee on a hearing about women's health and contraception. She also worked for Sanctuary for Families in NYC which worked to crackdown on human trafficking and domestic violence.