The Springboks defeated Scotland in a rugby test in Durban, South Africa. The Springboks intended to defend its unbeaten home record under Jake White, whilst the Scottish showed good form in the Six Nations. 

Scoring opened in the third minute, with Percy Montgomery landing a penalty goal to put South Africa three points in front. Scotland replied five minutes later with a penalty goal of its own by Chris Paterson to tie the game at three points all. In the 15th minute, the Springboks team was disallowed a try after the referee consulted the television match official. However, in the 16th minute, Schalk Burger is given a try. It was converted by Montgomery, to give the Springgboks an 11 points to three lead. A minute later Breyton Paulse touches down in the corner for another South African try, though it is not converted, Scotland now trails three points to 15. Paterson booted a penalty goal in the 25th minute to put Scotland back in the game, though Montgomery did the same in the 32nd minute. The Springboks entered the break leading 18 points to six.

Four minutes in from the break, Paterson kicked a penalty goal, putting Scotland back in the running, the score now being 18 points to nine, with over half an hour of game time remaining. However, the South Africans made a Scottish comeback all the more unlikely as Andre Snyman scoring a try in the 53rd minute. Montgomery converted the try, and South Africa was now leading 25 to nine. South African took the lead to 28 points with another penalty goal in the 61st minute. Two minutes later Montgomery scored a try and although he missed the conversion, he was successful with a penalty shot six minutes later. With just over ten minutes remaining, the score was 36 points to nine in favour of the Springboks. Simon Webster made sure that Scotland finished on a high note, scoring the last try of the match, which was subsequently converted by Paterson. The final score was 36 points to 16. The nations will meet again next week.