Each day, in living rooms, bars, and message boards across the United States, debates rage and opinions flare over the upcoming presidential election: "Which candidate has the most experience?" "Which candidate will best be able to unite Americans?" "Which candidate will work to bring about real change in Washington?" Time and again, these questions have been asked and answered by television pundits; they have been analysed in editorials, written about in blogs, and tackled in speeches by the candidates themselves.

But in one corner of the Internet, another oft-ignored, yet equally-important issue is being raised: vegetables.

"I eat them, knowing full well they have no nutrional [sic] value and cannot be fully digested by the human digestive system. But its fun once in awhile [sic] to see what you had for dinner last night, the following morning. Why I put this in here....I don't know. Nutrition is important, but humans are basically more inclined to eat meat." This is one of the many platform issues of Jack the Wiz, an Independent candidate for President of the United States.

The Wiz is not really running for President. But he is one of the top-rated Presidential candidates on U4Prez.com, a website that allows users to run a virtual campaign, complete with supporters, press releases, and caucuses, which are lively discussions on serious political issues. They can even compare their rating with the likes of John McCain, Hillary Clinton, and Barack Obama, all of whom have profiles set up. One blogger described it as "the MySpace of politics".

Candidates create a profile, where they outline their platform and expound their views on subjects ranging from global warming and immigration to religion and conspiracy theories. Just like in other social networking sites, candidates can leave comments on others' profiles; they can also rate other candidates on a scale of 1 to 10 and become a supporter of another campaign. All of this is factored into a candidate's rating, which ultimately determines who will become the next virtual President of the United States.

Eric Gurr, creator of U4Prez.com, says you shouldn't be fooled be the site's MySpace-like facade. "It's all about the politics," he says. "I think most of our users have accounts on MySpace and Facebook, and use U4prez strictly for the political dialogue." Wikinews conducted an email interview with Gurr, in which he discussed how the site works, how the Internet has affected politics, and who he is endorsing for President.