An acrobatic group known by the name of Spelbound has been declared as the winner of Britain's Got Talent 2010, a televised variety talent show competition broadcast on ITV in the United Kingdom. As the winning act of the show, Spelbound have won £100,000 (US$144,580, €120,313, A$175,079) and a place at The Royal Variety Performance, an annual gala evening that is attended by senior members of the British Royal Family.

In no particular order, the top three acts were revealed to be two dancers known by their stage name of Twist and Pulse, gymnastic group Spelbound and Kieran Gaffney, whose act involves playing on the drum kit. After Kieran Gaffney was revealed to be in third place, Anthony McPartlin, who hosts Britain's Got Talent with Declan Donnelly, said to Kieran: "Well done Kieran. Kieran, you're a star, you came back, you got all the way to the final. I know you've loved this. You've loved this, haven't you?" In response to this, Kieran Gaffney stated: "Thank you very much. Thank you, everyone for supporting me. Thank you."

Shortly afterwards, on the episode that was broadcast live on ITV1 on Saturday, Anthony announced: "After tens of thousands of auditons, five semi-finals and an amazing final, this...this is it. One of you is about to walk away with £100,000 and a place at this year's Royal Variety Performance. The winner of Britain's Got Talent 2010 is...Spelbound!" Glen Murphy from Twist and Pulse commented about finishing in second place, stating: "Yeah, it's amazing. I can't even believe it. I can't believe it at all."

Alex Uttley, a 24-year-old member of Spelbound, commented on the gymnastic group's victory, commenting: "Oh, my god. This is unbelieveable. We just want to say thank you to everyone out there. It just shows that all our hard work has paid off." One of the coaches of Spelbound, named Neil Griffiths, stated about Spelbound: "Oh, they've worked so hard over the last few weeks. Um, since the semi-final, we...we really had to pull out the stops to try and up the game. They've not known they've worked in the gym from six in the morning till twelve...twelve o'clock of the night. I couldn't have asked for more. Um, it's a team of coaches. I don't take all the credit myself. There's, uh, two people up there that know who they are who've been fantastic."

Spelbound consists of 24-year-old Alex Uttley, Nicholas Illingworth, aged 24, Adam Buckingham, aged 21, 20-year-old Adam McAssey, 19-year-old Douglas Fordyce, 18-year-old Edward Upcott, 18-year-old Leighanne Cowler, 17-year-old Katie Axten, 17-year-old Lauren Kemp, 15-year-old Jonathan Stranks, Abigail Ralph, aged 15, 13-year-old Hollianne Wood and Amy Mackenzie, aged 12. Bookmakers had previously predicted that Spelbound would be the most likely act to become the winner of the series.

The running order for the final started with Twist and Pulse. The second act to perform was Liam McNally, a 14-year-old singer. The running order subsequently continued with 40-year-old impressionist Paul Burling, singer Christopher Stone, aged 28, Tina &amp; Chandi, a woman and dog dancing act, Connected, a five-piece singing group, Kieran Gaffney, aged 12, 22-year-old Tobias Mead, a dancer, 80-year-old singer Janey Cutler and Spelbound in that particular order.

Earlier on in the final, Britain's Got Talent judge Amanda Holden has stated to Spelbound: "We are hosting the 2012 Olympics and I think 'what a brilliant opening act'." Fellow judge Piers Morgan also commented that "[t]he purpose of this show is to identify hidden great British talent. You are that act." After Spelbound won in the final, another judge, named Simon Cowell, stated that "the right boys and girls won on the night" and that he could "only say on live TV that that was one of the most astonishing things I have ever seen. Seriously."