According to police, at least 151 people were killed and over 300 wounded in yesterday's attacks in Mumbai, India. The attackers, who were reportedly armed with AK-47 assault rifles and hand grenades, have taken hostages at three locations.

It is still unclear how many gunmen there were, but police say that at least nine of them have been killed in fighting. CNN-IBN quoted a source as saying there may have been 26 gunmen.

Commandos with the Rapid Action Force have stormed the Taj Mahal Palace &amp; Tower and Oberoi Trident hotels. Ten hostages have been reported freed at the Oberoi, but it is unclear how many remain. Fresh explosions were heard at the Taj Hotel, but an official said that the situation is "almost sorted out."

Unconfirmed reports suggest one of the attackers is in custody.

"People who were held up there, they have all been rescued. But there are guests in the rooms, we don't know how many," said police chief A.N. Roy to Reuters.

A Jewish centre in Mumbai was also targeted by the attackers. 

NSG has announced that the Taj hotel is now clear and all terrorists are killed. One cell phone with a foreign SIM card was found outside Taj hotel, which belonged to one of the terrorists.

24 bodies were found in the Oberoi Trident just a few minutes ago taking the number of dead from 125 to 149 confirmed and rising.


There are also hostages at Nariman House, the Indian headquarters for Chabad Lubavitch, an Orthodox Jewish group. Police have surrounded the building.

Manmohan Singh addressed his country on national television: "We intend to ensure the safety of our citizens. We salute the police and men who lay down their lives in fighting these terrorists."

"The well-planned and well-orchestrated attacks, probably with external linkages, were intended to create a sense of terror by choosing high-profile targets," he said.

An e-mail claiming responsibility by the Deccan Mujahideen has not been verified or confirmed.

"It's even unclear whether it's a real group or not," said Professor Bruce Hoffman, a terrorism scholar at Georgetown University.