The Toronto International Film Festival rages on in Canada, as various companies and celebrities host parties. One of the largest so far was eTalk Star! Schmooze hosted at the former CHUM-City Building in the Queen West neighbourhood of Toronto.

Wikinews sent freelance photographer Robin Wong to this star-studded event, which included the casts of many of the movies being played at the festival.

 
Image:Robin Wong TIFF Schmooze Duff 1.jpg|Hilary Duff poses on the red carpet, after performing at the event.
Image:Robin Wong TIFF Schmooze Aaron Ashmore.jpg|Aaron Ashmore, who appears in Stone Angel.
Image:Robin Wong TIFF Schmooze Ben Mulroney.jpg|Ben Mulroney, one of the broadcast's hosts.
Image:Robin Wong TIFF Schmooze Canadian Idol.jpg|Canadian Idol finalists Jaydee Bixby and Brian Melo dropped by.
Image:Robin Wong TIFF Schmooze Colm Feore.jpg|Canadian film star Colm Feore, who's set to appear in 24 next season, here with his wife.
Image:Robin Wong TIFF Schmooze Carly Pope.jpg|Carly Pope, one of the stars of Young People Fucking.
Image:Robin Wong TIFF Schmooze the cast of Young People Fucking.jpg|More of the Young People Fucking cast.
Image:Robin Wong TIFF Schmooze Sophia Milos.jpg|Sofia Milos, from the cast of CSI: Miami.
Image:Robin Wong TIFF Schmooze Rebecca Hardy.jpg|Rebecca Hardy, winner of Canada's Next Top Model.
Image:Robin Wong TIFF Schmooze Kevin Zegers.jpg|Best known for his role in Transamerica, Kevin Zegers appears in three films at the festival.
Image:Robin Wong TIFF Schmooze Cassie Steele Mike Loebol.jpg|Mike Loebel and Cassie Steele, stars of the Toronto filmed Degrassi: The Next Generation.
Image:Robin Wong TIFF Schmooze George Stroumboulopoulos.jpg|George Stroumboulopoulos, host of CBC talk show The Hour.
Image:Robin Wong TIFF Schmooze Zack Werner.jpg|Music producer Zack Werner, a judge on Canadian Idol.
Image:Robin Wong TIFF Schmooze Rick Mercer.jpg|Comedian Rick Mercer, host of The Rick Mercer Report.
Image:Robin Wong TIFF Schmooze Designer Guys.jpg|The Designer Guys, who will host a talk show on the CBC early next year.
Image:Robin Wong TIFF Schmooze Jully Black.jpg|Jully Black, a commentator for eTalk Daily.
 

The second day of the festival didn't stop there.

Toronto's Design Exchange museum and education centre hosted a party for the movie "Michael Clayton", for which George Clooney was scheduled. Earlier in the day, Sienna and Savannah Miller launched their new twenty8twelve fashion label at the Holt Renfrew department store, a classy, upscale Canadian chain.

Tonight actress/singer Hilary Duff is scheduled to host a party at the club This is London. CTV will host an afterparty for Matt Damon's documentary Running the Sahara, and some of his Oceans co-stars are expected, including Clooney. Wyclef Jean and the African runners featured in the film are also on the guest list.

A One x One Benefit at the Four Seasons Centre for the Performing Arts will see Matt Damon, Richard Gere, and Shakira. Gere scrambled up to Toronto today after appearing live on Good Morning America and Live with Regis and Kelly.

A 2002 study by the Toronto International Film Festival Group found that the event brings CDN$67 million to the Toronto economy. With stars dropping CDN$5000 a night on a room at the Four Seasons Toronto, or $10K on a dinner at Bistro 990, the numbers quickly begin to explain themselves. Distributors spend $30 million on purchasing films for release at the fest, one of the top numbers worldwide.