The extinction of Elephants could have significant environmental impacts, according to a study conducted by the University of California, Berkeley. After tracking changes that took place over the past 15,000 years, paleontologists found that the extinction of large megafauna changed the landscape completely. 

They believe similar changes will occur if African elephants, alongside other large land mammals, were to become extinct. This is due to the comparable roles these large animals play. 




The analysis focused on the disappearance of mammoths across North and South America, and discovered permanent transformations to both vegetation and small mammal populations. Evidence was found in Alaska, where the loss of mammoths and native horses led to a change of grasslands to tundra over time. Evidence in western U.S. reveals a smaller diversity of small mammals.

The research was influenced by the increasing removal of elephants and wildebeest in Africa, and was led by University of California professor, Anthony Barnosky. He believes these new discoveries will help determine exactly where conservation and restoration efforts need to be made.

"If we lose some of these big-bodied animals that are threatened with extinction today, we lose a lot more than those animals, we lose the entire ecosystems of which they are part," Barnosky said. "We are moving into new territory in terms of what the planet will look like."

However, this is not the case for all extinctions. According to the study, permanent changes depend mainly on the animal’s role. Large mammals in particular, play a significant role in shaping the environment they live in. Elephants, like mammoths, uproot and trample trees, eat small shrubs, and churn soil. Such behaviors favour open habitats, and when you take them out of the picture, you get dense forests. 

Co-author and professor, Charles Marshall, says that the declining rate of the African elephants is already taking its toll on the land. "You see the impact of defaunation today in Africa," he says, "The removal of elephant populations has led to these shrubby, scraggly acacias filling the savanna landscape."