Yamaha rider James Stewart led from start to finish to win his fourth consecutive Monster Energy series Supercross race at AT&amp;T Park in San Francisco in front of an almost capacity crowd. Australian Chad Reed, despite a slow start, managed second whilst Kawasaki rider, Ryan Villopoto, took third place. 

Having earlier set the fastest time in qualifying, Stewart look determined to win and was a clear winner in his heat race and continued the aggressive approach into the final. Commenting on his win Stewart said ““We are working really hard this year. I felt good tonight and the track was tough. It was an awesome night for me.”

For series championship leader Chad Reed, it was a much tougher story. Seemingly down on speed throughout the night Reed had to battle in the final starting from fourth and moved into second place on lap three. Despite having seventeen laps to catch Stewart the 2008 champion was unable to make any ground on Stewart. Commenting on his disappointment for the night Reed said “Right now that is important and we go back to Anaheim next weekend, so we will work to get better.”

The win brings Stewart closer to Reed in the championship points table and now only trails by 6 points with more than half the series still remaining. Yamaha rider Josh Grant remains in third place despite failing to make the podium in San Francisco.

The Supercross Lites provided an entertaining battle between James Weimer, Ryan Dungey and Trey Canard. Leading for the first eleven laps Weimer held his line as Dungey tried an aggressive pass that saw him loose control and crash. Canard took advantage to move into second. Managing to restart the race, Dungey eventually caught and passed Canard to finish second behind race winner Weimer.

During the intermission the crowd was thrilled by the Jägermeister stunt team which included the rare feat of four riders performing reverse summersaults of the same ramp in sequence. 

The next round of the series takes place in Anaheim California on the 7th February.