In the National Football League, the Baltimore Ravens defeated the San Francisco 49ers, 34–31 to win Super Bowl XLVII on Sunday, despite a power outage at the New Orleans Superdome.

Referee Jerome Boger flipped the coin and the Ravens of the AFC won the coin toss and elected to defer till the second half. The 49ers of the NFC started on the 20 yard line and quickly went three and out. The Ravens first play on offense was a pass from quarterback Joe Flacco to Vonta Leach for an 8 yard gain. After working their way down the field the Ravens scored on a Flacco pass to Anquan Boldin. Justin Tucker put in the extra point for the Ravens to take the lead 7–0.

The 49ers came back on the next drive and drove down the field for a David Akers 36 yard field goal. Nearing the end of the first quarter the Ravens were pushing towards a touchdown until they were stopped on a 3rd and 13. The next possession for the 49ers ended with a fumble by LaMichael James that was recovered by Arthur Jones for no gain. After going down down the field, the Ravens scored on a Flacco pass to Dennis Pitta. The next possession for the 49ers ended as soon as it started after a Colin Kaepernick interception by Ed Reed. After the play penalties for unnecessary roughness were granted to each team due to an incident on the field.


The Ravens worked their way down the field until they hit the 14 yard line, where they set up for a field goal. Tucker took a direct snap and ran towards the first down marker ending up short of the first down ending their drive. The ensuing 49ers drive ended in a 3 and out. The Ravens responded with a 3 play touchdown drive ending with a 56 yard pass to Jacoby Jones from Flacco. This put the Ravens up 21–3 with 1:45 left in the first half. A successful 27 yard field goal by Akers followed shortly after as the score became 21–6 heading into halftime.

After the half-time show featuring Beyoncé, the Ravens got the ball to start the second half. Akers kicked it off to Jacoby Jones, Jones stepping out from the end of the end zone returning it for 108 yards, an tie for the longest return in Super Bowl history. This pushed the score up to 28–6.

After a punt by the 49ers and the Ravens, the 49ers drove down the field to score with a 31 yard throw to Michael Crabtree for a touchdown. An Akers extra point brought the score to 28–13. The next drive for the Ravens ended in a 3 and out. The 49ers came back 2 plays later with a 6 yard run by Frank Gore. The following Akers extra point made the score 28–20. The next possession for the Raven ended 2 plays in after a Ray Rice fumble that was recovered by Tarell Brown. The next drive almost ended in a missed 39 yard field goal by Akers but was saved due to a running into the kicker penalty by Chykie Brown. After the 5 yards were accessed, Akers lined up and made the 34 yard field goal bringing the score to 28–23.

The Ravens responded on their next drive with a 19 yard field goal by Tucker to increase their lead to 31–23. The 49ers responded with a 5 play touchdown drive ending with a Kaepernick 15 yard scramble to close the gap to 31–29 with the extra point to follow. The 49ers attempted a two point conversion but the pass was overthrown resulting in a missed attempt, leaving the score at 31–29 with 9:57 remaining in the 4th quarter. The Ravens took over the ball for a 5 minute 38 second drive that ended in a Tucker 38 yard field goal, making the score 34–29. Trying to finish their rally, the 49ers drove down to the 7 yard line. After a 2 yard rush by James, and 3 incomplete passes by Kaepernick, the Raven took over on downs on the 5 yard line with 1:46 left in the game.

After a run by Ray Rice, the 49ers called their last timeout to stop the clock with 1:42 left. A run by Bernard Pierce, and then Leach left the Ravens with a 4th and 7. The Ravens called a timeout to determine their next play. Lining up in punting formation, Koch caught the ball and ran around the end zone to waste time before getting pushed out for a safety by Chris Culliver to make the score 34–31 with 4 seconds left in the game. To end the game Koch punted the ball to Ted Ginn who returned the ball to end the game.