Kevin Ray Underwood, the suspect in the murder of 10-year-old Jamie Rose Bolin of Purcell, Oklahoma, reportedly kept a weblog in which he joked about cannibalism, discussed the effects of not taking his prescribed medicine, and talked about "dangerously weird" fantasies.

Underwood was arrested Friday after investigators searched his apartment and found Jamie's body in a plastic bin in his bedroom closet. Also reportedly found in his apartment were barbecue skewers and meat tenderizer, which law enforcement officials believe he intended to use to eat the girl's flesh.

People who knew Underwood reported that he was a relatively unassuming man, seemingly trustworthy. His mother described him as "a wonderful boy" and said of Jamie, "I would like to be able to tell her family how sorry we are. I just feel so terrible."

In the profile of his blog, entitled "Strange Things are Afoot at the Circle K" , Underwood described himself as "Single, bored, and lonely, but other than that, pretty happy." Also on his profile page, he poses the question, "If you were a cannibal, what would you wear to dinner?" and answers, "The skin of last night's main course."

In an entry dated September 8, 2005, Underwood reportedly described 1998 as "the year that a large part of me died" and "the longest year of my life." He reported losing contact with most of his friends, making an online acquaintance only to lose her again, and suffering panic attacks from being around people at college. Two of his friends also were involved in a car accident, one fatally injured. 

He reported in that entry that in the last year he found himself becoming more and more detached from the world, never leaving his apartment except to go to work or his parents' apartment. In an entry dated September 24, 2004, he reported that his fantasies were "just getting weirder and weirder. Dangerously weird. If people knew the kinds of things I think about anymore, I'd probably be locked away. No probably about it, I know I would be."

In an entry dated February 4, 2006, he said that he had hardly left the apartment in almost two months, and that "a week or so ago, I spent my day off sitting here at the computer, barely moving from the chair, for 14 hours."

His last blog entry was dated Thursday, April 13, 2006, one day after authorities believe Underwood killed Jamie Bolin.