A 21-year-old Swedish man killed himself and broadcast it over the internet via his webcam feed Monday, after posting to a message board that he had swallowed some painkillers and was going to hang himself.

At 11:51 a.m. Central European Summer Time (0951 UTC), Marcus Jannes, a student from Järna, Stockholm, posted to the Mental Health Problems forum of Sweden's Flashback message boards using the newly-registered username "LurifaxFlux", stating that he was going to hang himself, adding that he had already swallowed 100mg of dexofen and 1500mg of paracetamol. He said that he had set up a webcam to record the event, and would post details later of a FTP server for people to watch.


People responded to his post almost immediately. Some offered messages of hope, such as, "How bad can it be? When everything is at its worst, it can only get better", and "Think of poor people, mutilated people, people who are lame or blind. Living with a disability is hard. They can not change their lives! But you still have the ability to alter yours!" Others tried to keep him online by talking to him empathetically: "Is there anything that can make you change your mind?", "Tell me about yourself."

However, other users posted messages saying they didn't believe him, wishing him luck with his attempt, and calling him an attention whore and a troll. They also goaded him by saying, "you won't dare, you are too cowardly", and offering advice on the best way to hang himself: "I recommend ... you do it from a height that you can jump off so you are guaranteed to break your neck."

In a later post, Jannes said that he had been feeling suicidal for about six months, but was too scared to actually attempt anything until he tried to strangle himself with his own hands. In response to questions, he stated that he was using a network cable to strangle himself because he didn't have any rope, but he was worried that the cable would not be strong enough to take his weight. He also told them that he had Asperger syndrome and High-functioning autism, and was emotionally vulnerable and lacked normal social skills. He admitted to feeling lonely, and alluded to experiencing problems at school, but admitted that he had a good upbringing and had a rather good life. At around the same time, he also updated his Facebook status to say life was "just too difficult", and that he was going to kill himself.


=