The United Nations' World Health Organization reported on Monday that the total number of confirmed cases of the H1N1 swine flu virus worldwide has surpassed one thousand. The chief of the WHO, Margaret Chan, told the UN General Assembly in New York that 1,003 confirmed infections have been reported throughout the world since the outbreak began.

Chan said that there was "no indication that we are facing a situation similar to that in 1918," when an outbreak of the flu killed fifty million people. She did, however, warn that if the virus were to start in a second wave, it "would be the biggest of all outbreaks the world has faced in the 21st century."

"I'm not predicting the pandemic will blow up, but if I miss it and we don't prepare, I fail. I'd rather over-prepare than not prepare," Chan told the Financial Times.

On Monday, Portugal reported its first confirmed case of the disease, in a woman who had recently visited Mexico. Other European countries, such as Britain, the Netherlands, Switzerland, and Spain, have also announced new cases of the flu. Currently, there have been 27 casualties resulting from the disease, with 26 in Mexico and the other in the United States.

The WHO has recently increased its pandemic alert level to the fifth level, on a scale of one to six, although it has said an increase to the highest level is not probable. Keiji Fukuda, the WHO Assistant Director, said that "We do not have any evidence to suggest that we should move to phase six today, or any such move is imminent right now." A transition to the sixth level would only take place if the disease were to start spreading significantly on at least two continents.

Androulla Vassiliou, the European Union Health Commissioner, stressed that there was no need to panic about the outbreak. She said that a pandemic would not necessarily result in mass deaths from the virus.

"We are worried, but we are on top of things," Vassiliou said. "The fact that we have been preparing ourselves in the EU for an event such as this for some years now, and the experience gained so far, puts us in a much stronger position."