Switzerland dashed the Fifa World Cup dreams of the Republic of Korea beating them 2-0 to top Group G, Friday.




Republic of Korea (ROK) could not break through the Swiss defence even after they lost center-back and goal scorer Philippe Senderos to a shoulder injury on 53 minutes.

Earlier the 21-year-old rose majestically and thundered in a header from Hakan Yakin's freekick. The centre-back put so much neck power into the contact he headbutted Korea Republic defender Jin-Cheul Choi on the follow-through. Jin-Cheul and Senderos both needed medical treatment for cuts. 

However; Senderos's imperial commitment to the Swiss would not last what seemed to be a shoulder injury just after half-time and he was substituted on 53 minutes. With the experienced Hakan Yakin on great form in midfield the side did fine without him.

After hitting a post with a shot Alexander Frei scored the second for Switzerland on 77 minutes. Frei received a deflected pass onside and rounded Woon Jae Lee to side foot home.

The goal caused some controversy because the referee allowed it though his linesman had flagged for offside. Korean Republic players knew the second goal would make it almost impossible to win the game against the Swiss defence with only 13 minutes left.

Indeed, Koebi Kuhn's Switzerland team were to complete a three match shut out. Six foot six Pascal Zuberbuehler in the Swiss net had eight saves in the game bringing his total to 21 saves in three World Cup matches.

The 2002 World Cup semi-finalists had most ball possession and looked dangerous when the creative Chun Soo Lee was in possession but lacked strength in the penalty box and a decisive finisher to beat Zuberbuehler. 

Though under quite a bit of pressure in the second half the Switzerland team were never ruffled and conceded only eight fouls in the match to Korea Republic's 20 fouls.

The result meant Republic of Korea who had four points would finish third in Group G behind France on five points, after the French beat Togo, Friday.
 
Switzerland would face Ukraine in the round of sixteen, the winner of that match playing the victor of Italy versus Australia in the quarter finals.