The Swiss government has said Israel has "not taken the precautions required of it in international law" in their offensive in Gaza. The Federal Department of Foreign Affairs believes Israeli actions "are to be seen as forms of collective punishment." 

Israel has said their operation in Gaza is to free a kidnapped Israeli soldier.



Switzerland, the state where the international convention on human rights, the Geneva Conventions, were signed, claims it is neutral in international affairs. 

The rules, which Switzerland say Israel has broken, prohibit the deliberate targeting of services, including water and electricity, which are essential to the civilian population. On June 28 Israeli forces destroyed a power station that provided most of the power to residents of the Gaza Strip.

"There is no doubt that Israel has not taken the precautions required of it in international law to protect the civilian population and infrastructure," said a Swiss Foreign Ministry Spokesman 

"The destruction of a power station, the attack on the offices of the Palestinian prime minister, the arbitrary arrests of a large number of democratically-elected representatives of the people and ministers... cannot be justified," he continued.

The Israeli ambassador to Switzerland in Bern, Aviv Shir-On, replied to the Switzerland statement. "We are disappointed that the Swiss government did not issue such statements when Israel's civilian population was constantly under attack from the Gaza Strip," he said.

It is not the only time the Swiss government has commented in the midst of Middle Eastern turmoil.

Earlier this year, the 2006 Swiss President Moritz Leuenberger said the international block on funding to the Palestinian authority was a mistake, a claim Israel rejected.

Leuenberger said that the newly elected Hamas government should have been given the chance to prove it could work, a statement echoed by some aid agencies. Israel, the EU, and the United States have described Hamas as a terrorist organisation.


=