An 18-year-old Victorian teen accused of plotting a terrorist attack on Anzac Day applied for bail at Melbourne Magistrates' Court on Wednesday. It is alleged that Harun Causevic and his associate, Sedvdet Besim, also 18, planned to run down and behead a police officer before stealing his gun to harm others at Anzac Day services in Melbourne.

Federal prosecutor Andrew Doyle stated the allegations made against Mr Causevic at the start of the hearing. Mr Doyle said Mr Causevic and Mr Besim had planned to carry out a terror attack in Melbourne if they weren't able to access passports to head overseas. 

Denis Scott, an Australian Federal Police agent, told the court how Mr Causevic had allegedly called AFP and the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation officers "dogs" during the process of trying to obtain a passport in March. 

It was also revealed that Mr Besim had been speaking to a 14-year-old boy in the United Kingdom over the Internet. The boy had been portraying himself as an older man with experience in terrorism. Agent Scott told the court that these conversations were conducted through an online voice program, and that the two spoke about planning to carry out an attack on Anzac Day. 

It was alleged that Mr Causevic was an accomplice in organising the terror plot in Melbourne. The court heard of a number of incidents where Mr Causevic's extremist behaviours were put on show. In one instance he was involved in a car accident in which he allegedly told the driver involved that ISIS was "going to kill" Australia. It was also alleged that Mr Causevic had once spat on a police vehicle and waved an Islamic flag at officers.

During a search at Mr Causevic's home police found weapons such as knives, a tactical vest and an Islamic flag. Agent Scott told the court that if bail was granted, Mr Causevic could put the safety of the public and police force in danger.

The defence argued that there was no evidence to show that Mr Causevic had been in contact with the boy Mr Besim had been speaking with in the UK. Evidence was given from some members of the Islamic Council of Victoria suggesting that Mr Causevic was capable of being guided away from extremist Islamic ideology if he is granted bail. 

Magistrate Suzie Cameron is expected to make her decision on Mr Causevic's bail application on Friday.