Introduced by Alan Rosenberg, current President of the Screen Actors Guild, Grey's Anatomy star Sandra Oh and Bobby, Happy Feet actor Elijah Wood announced nominees for "the Actors".

The award ballots will be mailed to voters tomorrow. The Guild's entire active membership is allowed to vote, before the January 26 deadline. It is the only award voted on solely by actors, and the only award given solely to actors.

The ceremonies are held two days later, on January 28. TNT and TBS will both air the program in the United States, at 8 p.m. ET/PT, 7 p.m. CT, and 6 p.m. MT. In Canada, CTV is expected to show the special.

A total of eleven funny men and women got "Outstanding Performance by a Actor in a Comedy Series" nominations.

For male actors, the list reads Alec Baldwin as Jack Donaghy in 30 Rock, Steve Carell as Michael Scott in The Office, Jason Lee as Earl Hickey in My Name is Earl, Jeremy Piven as Ari Gold in Entourage, and Tony Shalhoub as Adrian Monk in Monk.

The females given a nod were America Ferrera as Betty Suarez in Ugly Betty, Felicity Huffman as Lynette in Desperate Housewives, Julia Louis-Dreyfus as Christine Campbell in The New Adventures of Old Christine, Megan Mullally as Karen Walker in Will &amp; Grace, Mary-Louise Parker as Nancy Botwin in Weeds, and Jaime Pressly as Joy in My Name is Earl.

Thespians also got their due salutes.

"Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Drama Series" nominees are James Gandolfini as Tony Soprano in The Sopranos, Michael C. Hall as Dexter Morgan in Dexter, Hugh Laurie as Dr. Gregory House in House, James Spader as Alan Shore in Boston Legal, and Kiefer Sutherland as Jack Bauer in 24.

Nominations for "Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Drama Series" go to Patricia Arquette as Allison Dubois in Medium, Edie Falco as Carmela Soprano in The Sopranos, Mariska Hargitay as Det. Olivia Benson in Law &amp; Order: Special Victims Unit, Kyra Sedgwick as Deputy Chief Brenda Johnson in The Closer, and Chandra Wilson as Dr. Miranda Bailey in Grey's Anatomy.

Two nominations in the "Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series" went to each ABC and HBO. The first got acknowledgement for Grey's Anatomy and Boston Legal, while the series on the latter were The Sopranos and Deadwood. The FOX network's series 24 also received a nomination.

Up for "Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Comedy Series" are The Office on NBC, ABC's Ugly Betty and Desperate Housewives, and two cable series, Showtime's Weeds and HBO series Entourage.

Many of the series have writing and performances that could qualify them for either Drama or Comedy series, such as Boston Legal and Desperate Housewives.

The Sopranos was the only series to get three nominations; telefilm Broken Trail also received that many.

As with many television-related award shows over the last decade, HBO lead the pack in nominations, with 10. ABC and NBC received 8 each.