One day after Maine became the fifth state in the United States to legalize same-sex marriage and Washington, D.C. passed a bill to recognize same-sex marriages performed elsewhere, televangelist Pat Robertson condemned the act of marriage between individuals of the same sex. On Thursday, Robertson compared its legalization to pedophilia, polygamy and child molestation while hosting the television show The 700 Club on the Christian Broadcasting Network.

During the broadcast Robertson asked "How can we rule that polygamy is illegal when you say that homosexual marriage is legal? What is it about polygamy that’s different? Well, polygamy was outlawed because it was considered immoral according to biblical standards. But if we take biblical standards away in homosexuality, what about the other? And what about bestiality and ultimately what about child molestation and pedophilia?"

Robertson then went on to query, "How can we criminalize these things and at the same time have constitutional amendments allowing same-sex marriage among homosexuals. You mark my words, this is just the beginning in a long downward slide in relation to all the things that we consider to be abhorrent."

Robertson's comments come after the Council of the District of Columbia voted in favor to recognize same-sex marriages performed anywhere outside the District. The measure passed the council 12 votes for with 1 against. Congress has 30 days post-signing to either let it stand or veto. D.C. is not a state and Congress has oversight of the Council. 

"To say 'well, I support domestic partnership or I support civil union' as a way to say 'I'm not that big a bigot,' and that's what it is," said David Catania, an openly gay member of the D.C. council.

Robertson's comments have made headlines in the past. In August of 2005, Robertson called for the assassination of Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez, for which he apologized two days later. In January 2006, Robertson said that former Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's stroke was "divine retribution" for pulling Israelis out of the Gaza Strip.