The United States Army has confirmed that thirteen people have been killed after a shooting rampage at the Fort Hood army base in Texas. An additional thirty are reported wounded, and the gunman is in stable condition after being shot by military police. Two other soldiers are in detention.

The incident took place at a deployment readiness center. According to local congressman John Carter, shooting broke out shortly before a graduation ceremony.

The gunman has been identified as an army officer, Major Malik Nadal Hasan. He is a mental health professional, presumably either a psychologist or psychiatrist, according to an unnamed defense official. Two other suspects were in custody, the base commander, Lieutenant-General Bob Cone, said.
"Our investigation is ongoing, but preliminary reports indicate that there was a single shooter," Cone said at a news conference. "The shooter is not dead, but in custody in stable condition."

Initial reports said that the gunman had been shot to death by military police; however, General Cone now says that the man is in custody and is in the hospital with injuries, but is in stable condition. FOX40 News in Sacramento managed to record a military spokesperson commenting on why the media wasn't informed about the status of the gunman until four hours after the initial announcement was made that he had been fatally shot. That military spokesman replied, "the doctors didn't know who they were working on."

When asked at the conference whether Hasan's attack might have been a terrorist act, General Cone replied that "I couldn't rule that out, but I'm telling you that right now the evidence does not suggest that."

It is not currently clear if those killed and wounded are civilian or military. The gunman is reported to have been in uniform and using handguns. Eyewitnesses claim at least one man was armed with a high-power sniper rifle. The chief of media at the base, Christopher Hogue, said to reporters that "the only one we know who was shooting was killed and he had two handguns."

There may have been other people involved in the shooting, however. "We [...] have apprehended two additional soldiers that are suspects. There were eyewitness accounts that there may have been more than one shooter," General Cone said.


The Killeen Independent School District said that all schools in the area were placed on lockdown. The base was closed down following the incident as well. "Effective immediately Fort Hood is closed," a statement on the Fort Hood website read. "This is not a Drill. It is an Emergency Situation." The website appears to have gone down shortly after the announcement.

A serviceman at the base described his experiences to the BBC. "I heard the emergency announcement over the speakers outside and saw people rushing to get indoors. In our office we're okay but we're hearing about the deaths. [...] We are still on lockdown. I am hearing that at least nine people may be dead."

Greg Schannep, a retired colonel, was heading to the 2 P.M. graduation ceremony when he heard gunshots and saw an injured soldier run past him. "Initially, I thought it was a training exercise," he recounted, as quoted by the New York Daily News. "A soldier came running past me and said 'sir, there is someone shooting.' As he ran past me I saw blood on his back. I don't think he even knew he had been shot."

"It's chaotic," said the director of a local coffee shop near the base, as quoted by the Associated Press. "They're just saying that they're under attack they don't know what's going on. [...] The phones are jammed. Everybody is calling family members and friends. Soldiers are running around with M-16s."

The authorities are still gathering information about the shooting, according to Homeland Security spokeswoman Sara Kuban. "DoD [Department of Defense], DHS [Department of Homeland Security], FBI and other members of the intelligence community are assessing and gathering facts about the shooting. Because this is early in this event, we cannot at this time confirm motives behind these shootings," she said.

The Scott &amp; White Memorial Hospital in the town of Temple received ten of the injured victims from the attack. Its website has posted an appeal for blood donations. "Due to the recent events on Fort Hood, we are in URGENT need of ALL blood types," it said. The hospital received 200 blood donations since 2:45 P.M. local time.

The hospital was soon closed to visitors after the wounded people were received. "[We are] no longer open to visitors as we focus our attention upon the victims and their families," a statement on the website said. The associate system chief medical officer said that they did not have specific information on their conditions. "We get patients like this, but not usually all at once," said director Glen Couchman.

Another health facility, the Metroplex Adventist Hospital, received seven other victims. The hospital stated that one of them was soon pronounced dead, and two others, including an EMS paramedic, are in surgery.

Fort Hood is situated in the town of Killeen. It is the largest military base in the world, houses around 40,000 US troops, and is about 100 kilometres (60 miles) north of Austin. It has been compared to a small town, with its own schools, convenience stores, and even two museums.

This is not the first time Killen has witnessed a shooting spree. The town was the site of the worst shooting spree in American history until the Virginia Tech massacre, when on October 16, 1991, George Jo Hennard drove his truck through the front window of Luby's Cafeteria and proceeded to shoot and kill 23 people and wound another 20, before commiting suicide in what is know as the Luby's massacre. It should be noted Major Hasan is an alumnus of Virginia Tech.

=