Two US Marshals and one officer of the St. Louis, Missouri Metropolitan Police Department were shot during a gunfight while trying to apprehend a suspect on Tuesday morning. All three were taken to local hospitals for treatment, where one US Marshal later died. The suspect, identified by his family as 35-year-old Carlos Boles, was shot and killed by authorities returning fire.

Eight law enforcement officials arrived at Bole's St. Louis, Missouri home to serve a felony arrest warrant. Upon entering the house, they were fired at with a semi-automatic firearm, according to ABC News. The shooter reportedly said, "I'm only going out in a body bag." After the shootings occurred, a SWAT team was requested because police did not know whether any other individuals were in the home. Three children, belonging to Bole's sister, had left the home before police initially moved in around 6:50 a.m. CST (12:50 UTC).

The wounded officer of the St. Louis Police Department was taken to Barnes-Jewish Hospital after being grazed by a bullet that was stopped by his bulletproof vest, and then falling down. A spokesperson for the police department described the officer, who had been with the department for 34 years, as responsive and communicating.

The two injured marshals were taken to St. Louis University Hospital. A statement released by the US Marshals Service said one of the marshals, 48-year-old Deputy Marshal John Perry had died around 7:00 pm CST (01:00 UTC) after being shot in the head. Perry was a ten-year veteran of the US Marshals Service. The other US Marshal, 31-year-old Theodore Abegg, was reported to be in fair condition, shot in the ankle and is expected to survive. Francis Slay, Mayor of St. Louis, talked to the victims' families at the hospital.

“Our deputies and law enforcement partners face danger every day in the pursuit of justice for the citizens of this great nation,” said Director Stacia A. Hylton of the US Marshals Service. “Our people and our partners are well trained and prepared, but it is impossible to predict when a wanted individual will make a fateful choice that results in the loss of life or injury. When that happens, and the life lost is a law enforcement officer or other public servant, it is an immeasurable tragedy felt by all. Today, unfortunately, we again feel that pain. Our thoughts and prayers are with our fallen deputy as well as the injured and their families.”

The suspect's sister said he was not returning to jail, in which he had already served ten years. In December, records show Boles pleaded guilty to burglary, armed criminal action and assault charges. He was living in the 3100 block of Osage Street in the St. Louis suburb of Dutchtown. Boles was wanted for assault on a law enforcement officer in the second degree, three counts of possession of a controlled substance, and resisting arrest. The FBI is now conducting the investigation, per standard procedure.