Business mogul and television personality Donald Trump spoke at the annual Faith and Freedom Coalition conference in Washington, D.C. last Friday, criticizing heavy media bias towards US President Barack Obama. 

Trump especially highlighted the lack of media attention after Obama made two gaffes during his recent state visit to the UK in May. Obama signed a guestbook and dated it 2008, instead of 2011. Also, during a state banquet held at Buckingham Palace, Obama spoke over the British national anthem, "God Save the Queen", as he toasted Queen Elizabeth II. 

Footage of the banquet shows Her Majesty speaking first, then proposing a toast to the people of the United States, the President, and Mrs. Obama. The guests rise from their seats and stand at attention as the US national anthem plays. The President is seen doing a civilian salute during the anthem. The President speaks, and proposes a toast to the Queen. He says "To Her Majesty the Queen" too early in his speech, however, prompting the band to play the British national anthem. Nonetheless, he continues to speak over the music. When he finishes speaking, the anthem is still playing, but he turns and raises his glass to the Queen. The Queen remains standing at attention, not accepting Obama's toast, and Obama lowers his glass. Everyone finally raises their glasses in a toast once the band finishes playing the anthem.

British Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg said of the anthem blunder, "I thought you did exactly the right thing." The press also has seemed to focus less on the gaffe, and more on Obama strengthening US-UK relations. 

"I said to myself, 'I wonder what would have happened if George Bush signed it May of '08? I wonder if almost anybody was three years off,'" Trump said.

Trump also criticized the President's fiscal policies, especially high gas prices, rising unemployment, and the national debt. He was speaking at a two-day forum, named the Faith and Freedom Conference and Strategy Briefing, along with possible candidates for the Republican nomination for President next year. Although he announced last month that he will not seek the Republican nomination, he has still left open the possibility of running as an independent candidate.