The combined efforts of agents from the Afghan Commandos and Coalition forces have led to the discovery and destruction of two-and-a-half tonnes of marijuana in an abandoned school in the southern Afghan province of Kandahar on Friday.

Kandahār province or Qandahar (کندھار,{قندهار) is one of the largest of the thirty-four provinces of Afghanistan. It is located in southern Afghanistan, between Helamand, Oruzgan and Zabul provinces. Its capital is the city of Kandahār, also spelled Qandahār, (کندهار or قندهار), the second largest city in Afghanistan, with a population of 450,300 (2006 estimate). Kandahar City is located on the Arghandab River. The province has a population of nearly 890,000, with more than 300,000 living in its capital city. The main inhabitants of Kandahar province are the Pashtun people.


An improvised explosive device and an unexploded mortar round, both 100-meters away from the school, also were destroyed.
Foot patrol by the combined forces yielded tips which led to the drug discovery. A Commando also discovered a large room filled with marijuana seeds. The marijuana was placed in two-foot-tall (0.6-meter) stacks that filled multiple 12ft-by-12ft rooms. Rust on the furniture suggests the Afghan schoolhouse may not have been used as such for a long period of time. No students or faculty were around at the time of the drug bust. 

U.S. Forces Afghanistan spokesperson, Col. Jerry O'Hara said that "using drugs to fund insurgent activity is bad enough; using a school as a drug warehouse is an attack on the future of all Afghanistan."

Xinhua has reported that "according to a recent U.N. report, Afghanistan produces over 90 percent of the world's opium as Taliban militants will benefit nearly 500 million U.S. dollars from opium trade in 2008."

Meanwhile, coalition troops have killed four militants in Zabul Province. They also detained five suspects on Saturday. Adm. Mike Mullen, chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said that "the United States would send between 20,000 and 30,000 more forces to Afghanistan by summer." "Those forces will primarily move into the country's south, where the insurgency is the most entrenched," he added.