On Tuesday in Westminster Magistrates' Court in the United Kingdom, a man and woman pled guilty to harassing a female journalist Caroline Criado-Perez on Twitter.

In July of last year, Criado-Perez lobbied to replace Charles Darwin with Jane Austen on the £10 British note, which 23-year-old Isabella Sorley and 25-year-old John Nimmo responded by encouraging her to commit suicide, threatening to kill her, rape her and do things worse than rape.

Beyond Criado-Perez,  MP for Walthamstow Stella Creasy was also subject to abuse after defending Criado-Perez on the social media site. Both Criado-Perez and Creasy claimed they were scared and intimidated by the barrage of abuse and threats directed at them.  Sky News reported the abuse came from 86 different Twitter accounts.

Sorley claimed in court one of the reasons for her actions in relation to Criado-Perez was that she was bored and drunk.

Criado-Perez released a statement to the media saying in part, "This is not a joyful day; these two abusers reflect a small drop in the ocean, both in terms of the amount of abuse I received across July and August, but also in terms of the abuse that other women receive online – women who have little to no recourse to justice. [...] However, I hope that for some people who are watching, this conviction will be a warning: online abuse is not consequence-free. I hope that some people watching will think twice before abusing someone else."

Following the 48 hours of abusive behavior, people threatened to boycott Twitter, and the company responded by promising to put report abuse buttons on every individual tweet.

Naked Security says the take away from this plea is that trolls actions may simply be a result of boredom, and that reporting trolling can actually lead to people being arrested.

In the same week as the guilty plea was made, a number of media organizations reported on online bullying targetting women and female journalists. On Monday, the Pacific Standard published a story by Amanda Hess saying women are not wanted on the Internet. In the story, she claims that every day, women on the Internet are told "Ignore the barrage of violent threats and harassing messages that confront you online".  In the piece, Hess talks about the abuse she has been subjected to, including threats of rape and comments on her appearance.  Hess cited a 2005 study by the Pew Research Center that found while men and women use the Internet in equal numbers, women are much more likely to be victims of online harassment and abuse.  Hess says, "Threats of rape, death, and stalking can overpower our emotional bandwidth, take up our time, and cost us money through legal fees, online protection services, and missed wages."  She also says, "The personal and professional costs of that discrimination manifest themselves in very real ways."

The Raw Story said the recent case of Lizz Winstead caught their eye on Tuesday following the publishing of Hess's story after Winstead said she "get[s] this shit all day.  Every day."  She provided The Raw Story with a screencap of a recent message directed at her that said, "why shouldn’t everyone including feminsts [sic] plagued by people like you root for the lone crazy with a gun?"

The Atlantic also responded to Hess's piece, with Conor Friedersdorf saying, "For years, I've been convinced that gendered nastiness and harassment was one factor responsible for the emergence of a blogosphere so disproportionately inhabited by men."  He went on to say, "Around this time, I began to ask female friends if they experienced this same phenomenon. And not only were they close to unanimous in avowing that they did—many also cited a weariness at gendered online abuse to explain why they either shuttered their personal blogs and stopped writing for the public, or shifted their journalistic efforts to a traditional format rather than the more personalized blog format."

Sorley and Nimmo's case is scheduled to be adjourned on January 27.