One male and one female who are students attending Delaware State University in Dover, Delaware are reported to have been shot around 1:00 a.m. (eastern time). The shooting took place near Memorial Hall gymnasium.

"At approximately 12:54 a.m. on Friday, Sept. 21, the Delaware State University Police Department was notified of an incident in which two students were shot on campus near Memorial Hall. A single male suspect is being sought, but has not yet been apprehended. The investigation is continuing with the assistance of other local police," said a statement on the university's website.

Both have been injured and have been taken to a nearby hospital for medical attention. The university's statement says that the "male student is in stable condition, however, the female student’s injuries are considered serious." The female, taken to Christiana Hospital in Newark, New Jersey, was shot twice, whereas the male, who was taken to Kent General Hospital located in Dover, was shot only once.

"Eight to ten students dispersed from a cafe. Shortly before 1:00 a.m. (eastern time)" a student "pulled a gun" and "five or six shots were fired. The female was shot twice, the male once," said Chief James Overton of the Massachusetts State Police during a press conference, who also said that several agencies including the FBI, The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, and local police are participating in the investigation.

Police are currently searching for the suspect and all classes at the university have been canceled indefinitely and anyone on campus is asked to stay inside at all times. Police also ask for no staff or students to come to the campus.

According to Overton, at least two people are considered to be "persons of interest." At least one individual is being questioned by police, but the other is still at large.

"Because the suspect is still at large, residential students are directed to remain in their residence halls for their safety until further notice. Classes on the Dover campus of Delaware State University have been canceled for Friday, Sept. 21 in the wake of an early morning shooting at the institution that has left two students wounded and a suspect at large. All non-essential personnel are directed not to report to work on this day," said a statement posted on the university's website.