Liverpool all but guaranteed a spot in the semifinals of the UEFA Champions League Tuesday night with a convincing 3-0 win over Dutch side PSV Eindhoven in Holland. A full crowd of 36,500 fans showed up at the Phillips Stadion to support their teams. Liverpool went into the game on a high having beaten Arsenal 4-1 at Anfield on Saturday. PSV on the other hand have been in a slump as of late in the Eredivise, as they have let Ajax Amsterdam back into the title race. Peter Crouch, who scored a hat-trick on Saturday, was partnered with Dirk Kuyt for Liverpool, while PSV paired Jefferson Farfan and Diego Tardelli as strikers.

PSV were the first to threaten either goal, when Mika Vayrynen blasted a shot over the bar from well out after a one-two with Jefferson Farfan. John Arne Riise then had Liverpool's first chance as his shot was deflected wide, and the ensuing corner by Steven Gerrard was met by the head of Jamie Carragher, but keeper Heurelho Gomes produced a fine diving stop to keep the scores level. Carragher then nearly gave the hosts a goal as he defelected a corner barely over the crossbar. Reds captain Steven Gerrard then scored as he met Steve Finnan's cross strongly with his head, and Gomes could do nothing as Gerrard scored his team record 16th goal in international play. 

PSV suffered a blow at the break with striker Jefferson Farfan having to leave the match. He was replaced by Chinese international Xiang Sun. A soft clearance attempt by Timmy Simmons then handed the ball to Riise, and the big Dane powered the ball past Gomes, giving the Reds a demanding 2-0 lead. Liverpool continued to pressure for a third goal, and Riise had another chance when Gomes mishandled a cross, but the keeper was able to recover and save his blushes. Finnan supplied the ball for the final goal of the match as well, as his cross was met by the head of Peter Crouch. The 3-0 lead guaranteed the reds the win, but they did suffer a blow on the night when midfielder Fabio Aurelio was forced to leave the pitch with injury. Kuyt also revieved a yellow card in the dying minutes, ruling him out of the second leg with suspension, but Liverpool have a fitting substitute in the form of Craig Bellamy. 

The return leg of the series occurs on April 11th at Anfield in Liverpool. PSV will now have to win by a margin of 3 goals in order to hope to advance.