Yesterday at the Laura Cross-Country Ski &amp; Biathlon Center at the 2014 Winter Paralympics in Sochi, Russia, Ukrainian Lyudmyla Pavlenko won gold in the women's 12km sitting race. United States skier Oksana Masters won silver, and Russia's Svetlana Konovalova won bronze. Other United States skiers in the race included Tatyana McFaddenn who finished fifth, Monica Bascio who finish seventh, and Beth Requist who finished sixteenth.

Russia swept the podium in the men's 15km sitting event held earlier in the day, with Roman Petuschkov winning gold, Irek Zaripov silver and Aleksandr Davidovich bronze. Ukraine's Maksym Yarovyi finished just out of medal standing fourth place. United States skiers in the race included Andrew Soule who finished fifth, Sean Halstead who finished ninth, Aaron Pike who finished twelfth, Daniel Cnossen who finished thirteenth, Augusto Jose Perez who finished seventeenth and Bryan Price who finished nineteenth.

 picture select|width=500px
| Winners of the women's sitting 12km cross country at the flower ceremony. 
| Poland's Kamil Rosiek starts the men's race. 
| Aleksandr Davidovich of Russia starts the men's race. 
| The United States's Daniel Cnossen starts the men's race. 
| A men's skier finished the race. 
| Ukraine's Mykhaylo Tkachenko finishes the men's race in tenth place. 
| Italy's Roland Ruepp finished the men's race in sixteenth place. 
| Italy's Giordana Tomasoni starts the men's race 
| The result's for the men's race are shown on the big screen. 
| The start list for the women's race are shown on the big screen. 
| Belarus's Lludmila Vauchok starts the women's race. 
| A view of the mountain against the backdrop of part of the race course. 
| A woman skier on the course. 
| The United States's Oksana Masters crossing the finish line in second place. 
| Norway's Birgit Skarstein finishing the race in twelfth place.
| The United States's Beth Requist finishing last and in sixteenth place. The race had seventeen skiers. Andrea Eskau of Germany started the race but did not finish. 
| Italy's Francesca Porcellato finishes tenth. 
| The results of the women's race.