The U.S. federal government has turned to the public on the decision to import 18 wild African elephants to the United States. The public is given until November 23 to voice their opinion on whether the country should accept the Swaziland elephants and place them in zoos. The government is reportedly in favour of the decision, but is weighing in all possible solutions before the final decision is made and encourage citizens to comment online or through mail.

The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service are responsible for issuing the permits that will allow zoos in Texas, Nebraska and Kansas to receive six elephants each. The move is part of a wider conservation project that aims to balance the Swaziland elephant population while protecting the black rhinos. It’s reported that the elephants are destroying the natural rhino habitat in two protected areas. The service has narrowed down to three possible solutions: permit approval, dismissal (to which the elephants will be culled), or reducing the number of elephants being imported.

Recent reports show the public majority opposes the move, alongside the idea of zoo captivity. Elephant conservationist and expert, Dr. Joyce Poole, believes there is little evidence showing threat or competition to the rhino population, and agrees with the public. "The capture and removal of wild elephants from their home ranges and social groups is appalling and archaic, and the threat to kill elephants unless permits are issued is beyond unethical," she says. Dr. Poole also believes that the real solution lies in finding sanctuaries in Africa where the elephants can live naturally.

CEO of the Dallas Zoo, Gregg Hudson, commends Swaziland's efforts in providing the elephants with a safe future. “As animal caretakers and conservationists, we care about animal populations as a whole just as much as an individual animal. We can provide these elephants a safe future while making an enormous impact on rhino conservation in Africa."

Despite public concern, a chief from the Fish and Wildlife Service, Timothy Van Norman, explains that the public will help the decision but not determine it. The date of the final decision is yet to be confirmed and depends on how long it takes to get through public comments. Officials however, are hoping to do this as quickly as possible.