Reuters has reported citing unnamed US officials that a small contingent of US Special Forces will be sent to Syria. The Special Forces will be part of an “advise and assist” mission to Syrian rebels fighting against Islamic State militants. 

US President Barack Obama will make a full announcement on Friday. 

20-30 Special Forces operatives will be sent to Syria as military advisers, presumably to the US-backed rebel groups, unnamed US officials told Reuters. 
In the past Obama has refused to send US troops to Syria. He believes that local Sunni Arabs would have to fight ISIL on the ground, while the US-led coalition fought from the air.

CNN has reported that the troops will be sent to Kurdish-controlled territory in northern Syria. The troops aren’t expected to be in the front line of the fight, but they must be prepared to fight back if they are attacked. Washington can also authorize them to join rebel raids if they need to.

In Iraq there are US special operatives with a strong force of 4500 troops, their role is to advise and assist the Iraq militias in their fight against Islamic State forces. However, last week Master Sergeant Joshua Wheeler of the secretive Delta Force was killed during a hostage rescues raid in northern Iraq.

Since September 30 Russia has been conducting precision airstrikes on IS positions in Syria at the request of President Bashar al-Assad. According to Russian General staff this has resulted in a large-scale militant retreat and the loss of much of their weaponry and equipment. However, Russia’s invasion in Syria, has killed 3,649 people since they began in September 2014. Around 6 percent of them are innocent civilians according to the Observatory. 

Operations without a nod from the official government or UN authorization don't have legitimacy under international law.

Konstantin Kosachev, the head of Russia’s parliamentary committee on foreign affairs has said, “Any operations – air based operations, ground based operations – in Syria by American forces will be illegal.”

Obama’s announcement comes as diplomats from 20 countries gather in Vienna for talks on a political solution to the Syrian Civil War.