Emma Gage is currently a rising junior at Marist College studying fashion design. "She has played a role on her family foundation where she was inspired to pursue ethical and sustainable fashion while combating human trafficking and fighting for human rights," Sharad Khare said. "If I was going to pick two things that have surrounded me my entire life, it would be fashion and fighting human trafficking." Emma has been able to meld these two worlds together to fight for the issues in the fashion industry, to combat human trafficking and slavery. 

Gage stated today that she believes that people do not take an interest in where their clothing comes from or where shops source their clothing from, which is a major reason for inequalities among nations, genders and human rights. According to the 'Not for Sale' Campaign, women and girls make up 98% of the worlds exploited, and there are 30 million people affected by modern slavery, including both sexual slavery and physical labour that includes producing goods for clothing industries. 

When Emma Gage attended the Nexus Youth Summit she heard everything that was happening and realised she needed to make changes in the present, and not wait until her career is stable in 15 to 20 years. From there she began raising awareness in her school, and especially in her program for fashion. She is a powerful speaker on the importance on learning how to change the fashion industry for the better, being aware of human rights and where we are sourcing from and where we are producing our goods. 

She has worked closely with her professors and peers to bring awareness to schools around her. "Human trafficking and human slavery is still something that is happening in our world, people aren't presented with the facts and aren't aware at how they can see a situation in which they and help somebody," Gage said. "They simply don't know that it is happening close to their homes." 

Gage believes that it is important to be conscious, and be aware of who you are buying things from and where you're shopping, "It's all about being a conscious consumer."