While nearly all coverage of the 2008 Presidential election has focused on the Democratic and Republican candidates, the race for the White House also includes independents and third-party candidates. These prospects represent a variety of views that may not be acknowledged by the major party platforms.

Wikinews has reached out to these candidates throughout the campaign. We now interview the Prohibition Party Presidential nominee Gene Amondson, a preacher, artist and prohibition activist.

Why do you want to be President?

:With one out of nine blacks between twenty and thirty-four in prison, Prohibition will come again for the fourth time.

Have you ever run for political office before? (President, senate, congress, city councilor, school trustee... etc.) Have you ever been a member of a political party, other than the one you're currently in?
 
:I grew up Republican; my brother was [a] state Senator.

What skills or ideas do you bring from this position, or previous positions, that will benefit the Oval Office?
 
:I run because no one else will help America with its number one problem: where is the church? That had one Sunday set aside each year to get kids to take a pledge – never to drink (that was 60 years ago).

Campaigning for the American presidency is one of the most expensive exercises in the world. How do you deal with the cost and fundraising?

:If we could cut off the money that goes to Dobson, the Salvation Army, Union Gospel Vision, World Vision, Graham, America could save our children from drunk parents. Ohio has a quarter of a million children abused each year by a drunk parent.

:[Even] with MADD Mothers and millions of dollars, drunk driving has not gone down in ten years.

What are you/were you looking for in a running mate?

:I have a running mate, but would like Newt Gingrich.


Can you win the 2008 Presidential election?
 
:Third party people do not win but we say wise things.

If you can't make it into the Oval Office, whom would you prefer seeing taking the presidency?
 
:We need McCain to get good Supreme Court judges, not the Democrats. Jewish people must be wise like, Mayor Ed Koch. I have to vote Republican, or kiss Israel goodbye. Of the three front runners, only McCain will help Israel.

What should the American people keep in mind, when heading to the polls this November?

:Liberal Democrats win because they promise everything, like: America can give you everything; you do not even have to work; let anyone come across our borders; eat, drink and be merry.

Anything else you want to add?

:We are America's third oldest party, [we have been around for] 137 years. Your kids need you sober. You booze you lose. Like crime and drugs: keep selling alcohol. America's greatest years were the fourteen years of prohibition: our prisons and mental institutions [were] emptied. If you had a dog that bit every third person what would you do?
:You would shoot that dog. Alcohol has no taste....I[f] I don't like you sober, I won't like [you] with a few beers. Responsible drinking – responsible smoking – dumb and dumber.

:We need your help [contact me] at http://www.geneamondson.com [or call] 206-463-6333.