London, England — Yesterday , following her team's 62–37 win over Mexico in the quarterfinals, Wikinews interviewed Katie Hill of Australia's women's national wheelchair basketball team.

 Katie Hill, we know you've won a bronze medal before. What state are you from?
::Katie Hill: I'm from New South Wales.
 Do you play for a club?
::KH: Yeah! I play for the Sydney Uni Flames.
 You guys played Mexico in the lead up to this? 
::KH: Yeah. We just had a tournament in the Netherlands, in Europe, and we got to play them there, which is good preparation.
 You guys dominated in a painful way, embarrassingly for Mexico. You guys did a full court press and half court press and really jammed them up. Was that intentional?
::KH: Of course! We had a strong game in our last game against the Netherlands, and obviously we're a bit fired up, and we want to be here so, you know, we want to play as strong as we can and prepare ourselves for the strongest teams that we can play. So, if we get to practice those kind of things and it works really well, then that's what we are aiming to do
 You're going to meet either the USA or Canada. As an American, I find that terrifying. Do you guys think you have a real shot at the [semifinals]? 
::KH: Obviously, there's a lot of good teams in this competition. I think that anyone could win it on their day. As long as we're playing as well as we can, sure! Definitely! 
 You seemed to have all the answers to the Netherlands yesterday. Every tactic that they tried, you had a counterattack.
::KH: They're a familiar team for us. We've been playing them for a while, and I think yesterday's win was probably the first time we've beaten them in quite a long time. So it was nice to finally make that happen now, and have that be a good win for us and put us in a good position. 
 Now's a good time to find real form.
::KH: Exactly! So, we're saving it all up for when it counts!
 You did really well in Sydney in that tournament. 
::KH: Yes.
 You have that huge fan base with all those gliders shirts. How big a difference does it make on the court?
::KH: Oh, it's unreal. It's amazing to come out. When you come out here, to many of the girls it's their first time out, and you come out and there's a whole big stadium full of people, all you want to do is find your family, and know where they're sitting, and sometimes that's really hard. So we've got them all in their yellow shirts and they're all sitting there so they're all recognisable and it just is amazing to feel so comfortable that all those people are behind you. 
 Who's here for you?
::KH: I have my mum, my dad, my auntie, and also my dad's girlfriend is here as well.
 Are you enjoying London, and the food and all?
::KH: Yeah! This is the first time I've actually been to London. I've been through it a few times on our travels elsewhere, but it's been fantastic, and we're really enjoying it. 
 Do you plan to continue on to Rio? Or are you going to be like other Paralympians and retire on top?
::KH: I don't plan to retire any time soon. It's not like this is my last shot and then I'm going to have a rest. But I'm also focused on now and not really in four years time. I'll see how I'm going then. I like to play basketball so I'm not going to quit.
 Thank you very much.