The 2006 New Zealand Music Awards, or Tuis, were announced yesterday night at Auckland.

Campbell Smith, organiser, said it has been encouraging to "see the Tuis spread among a wide group of artists, rather than being dominated by one or two. It shows the New Zealand music scene is vibrant, diverse and growing."

The album of year was won by Bic Runga for her album, Birds. She beat other musicians including Dave Dobbyn and Don McGlashan.

Pluto with their single Long White Cross, won the single of the year. This beat other singles by Bic Runga, Goldenhorse, Mt Raskil Preservations Society featuring Hollie Smith, and The Feelers.

Elemeno P won the best group. They beat other bands, Bleeders and Fly My Pretties.

Dave Dobbyn was the best male solo artist, taking it out over Che Fu and Don McGlashan.
 
Bic Runga was the best female solo artist beating Aaradhna and Anika Moa.

Bleeders were announced as the breakthrough artist of the year beating Aaradhna and Frontline.
 
The best music video was awarded to Mark Williams for the music video of Fat Freddy's Drop; Wandering Eye.

Bleeders won best rock album for their album, As Sweet As Sin, beating Blindspott and Elemeno P.

The best urban/hip hop album was awarded to Borrowed Time by Frontline. This album beat Fresh Men by Nesian Mystik and Kaleidoscope by Opensouls.

The best dance/electronica album was Chaos By Design by Concord Dawn. Concord Dawn beat other groups Recloose and Sola Rose to win the prize.

The Return of Fly My Pretties by Fly My Pretties won the best Aotearoa roots album.

Te Reotakiwas Dunn by Te Reotakiwa Dunn won the best Maori album by beating Mahara Tocker with their album Hurricane's Eye and Rodger Cunningham with Toto.

Juliagrace won the best gospel/Christian album.

Spirit of the Land by Tower Voices of New Zealand won the best classical album.

Fat Freddy's Drop was awarded with the people's choice award, beating Pluto, Frontline, Elemeno P, Bic Runga and Goodnight Nurse.

The Warehouse highest selling New Zealand album was awarded to Fat Freddy's Drop, Based on a True Story.

All I Ask by Rosita Vai won the highest selling NZ single.

The NZ on Air radio airplay record of the year was won by The Feelers for their record, Stand Up.