World leaders at the G8 Meeting at Gleneagles have made statements following the bomb attacks in London today.

Queen Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom offered this official statement following the attacks:
:The dreadful events in London this morning have deeply shocked us all. I know I speak for the whole nation in expressing my sympathy to all those affected and the relatives of the killed and injured. I have nothing but admiration for the emergency services as they go about their work.

France's Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin made a short statement to offer moral and material support to the population of London. The "Vigipirate plan" was raised from "orange" to "red".

Australia's Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said the attacks were:
:Roundly condemned by the Australian government.
:We are 100% behind the British government and 100% behind the British people at this time and completely condemn this appalling terrorism.

Canadian Prime Minister Paul Martin made a statement from the G8 summit, stating:
:Today, we have been witness to acts of cowardice and terror. The London bombings are an unspeakable attack on the innocent and on a way of life.
:On behalf of all Canadians, I have extended to Prime Minister Blair the condolences and the sympathies of our nation. We pray for those who have lost their lives, and for their families.
:Canadian security forces are working closely with those of Great Britain. We stand ready to provide any assistance that may be required at this difficult hour and in the days and weeks ahead.
:Our collective freedom has come under attack today by those who would use violence and murder to force extremism upon the world. We must and we will stand against these terrorists. We will do so together. And we will prevail.

US President George W. Bush made a statement in Edinburgh, vowing to be "extra vigilant" in pursuit of terrorism.
:On the one hand, you have people here working to alleviate poverty and rid the world of AIDS. The contrast couldn't be clearer between the hearts of those who care about human liberty and those who would take the lives of innocent folks. The war of terror goes on. We will not yield to terror. We will spread an ideology of hope and compassion that will overwhelm their ideology of hate.

In Spain, which saw attacks on Madrid last year, the Spanish Government said it would help the UK, "pursue the criminals who have carried out such a repugnant attack against a city that was celebrating its election as the host of the Games of the XXX Olympiad". The European Parliament President Josep Borrel, expressed his condolences, saying: 
:As president of parliament and a citizen of a country that only last year experienced the horrors of such terrible attacks. I want to send a message of solidarity with British people, we all stand with you, British people, and we will never let atrocities or terrorism defeat the values of peace and democracy.

Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh of India expressed outrage at terrorist attacks in London, saying these only "underscore our contention that terrorism is a global phenomenon that needed to be tackled with concerted effort." Recalling that India was the victim of a terrorist attack only two days ago when heavily armed men assaulted a shrine at Ayodhya before being killed, Dr Singh said the incidents demonstrated that "global terrorism does not respect international boundaries and we all need to work together to counter it."

Danish Prime Minster Anders Fogh Rasmussen calls the attack in London "terrible": 
:Once again we witness the barbaric attacks of unrelenting terrorists against innocent people -- civilians, women and children". He further emphasizes the importance of the western world not giving in to terrorism: "They may never be allowed to reach their goal through death and destruction. Therefore I support the continuation of the G8 summit. Our thoughts in this tragic situation go first and foremost to the victims and their families. The British population have our deepest sympathies.

The Norwegian King Harald telexed Queen Elisabeth II: 
:It was with great sorrow I received the shocking news about the horrible incidents that happened in London this morning, that have injured and claimed the lives of innocent humans" Prime minister Kjell Magne Bondevik urges that the war on terror have to continue: "We cannot let ourself get scared, that would be to give the terrorists the victory.

Support for Great Britain came from the President of Serbia and the Prime Minister of Kosovo. The President of Serbia and Montenegro, Svetozar Marović, sent his condolences to Queen Elizabeth II and Tony Blair, and expressed solidarity of citizens of Serbia and Montenegro with the British people: 
:We are stunned by this tragedy and new recklessness of terrorists towards free and civilized countries and their citizens. Innocent victims in London will only strenghten the struggle of the entire human kind against terrorism.