Leaders and officals around the world have issued varied reactions to the announcement that Osama bin Laden has been killed during a U.S. military operation in Pakistan. NATO has insisted it will continue fighting against militants in Afghanistan, and the United Nations said the death of bin Laden marked a "watershed moment in our common global fight against terrorism."

Announcing that the al-Qaeda leader had been killed by U.S. special forces during a forty-minute raid on a compound in Abbottabad, near the capital Islamabad, U.S. President Barack Obama said it was "a good day for America." Speaking at a ceremony to celebrate winners of the Medal of Honor, Obama praised the "anonymous heroes" who took part in the operation. He said: "We may not always know their names, we may not always know their stories, but they are always there on the front lines of freedom and we are truly blessed. As commander-in-chief, I could not be prouder of our men and women in uniform." 

Anders Fogh Rasmussen, the chief of NATO, vowed the organization would remain fighting in Afghanistan despite the death of bin Laden. "As terrorism continues to pose a direct threat to our security and international stability, international cooperation remains key and NATO is at the heart of that cooperation," he said in a statement. "NATO allies and partners will continue their mission to ensure that Afghanistan never again becomes a safe haven for extremism, but develops in peace and security." 

The U.N. and the European Parliament also welcomed the news. Ban Ki-moon, the U.N. secretary general, said: "The death of Osama bin Laden, announced by President Obama last night, is a watershed moment in our common global fight against terrorism. The crimes of al-Qaeda touched most continents, bringing tragedy and loss of life to thousands of men, women and children."


David Cameron, the British Prime Minister, said the news "will be welcomed right across our country" and was a "massive step forward," but warned the death of bin Laden "does not mark the end of the threat we face from extremist terror." Italian Prime Minster Silvio Berlusconi said: "This is a great outcome in the fight against evil, in the fight against terrorism, a great outcome for the United States and for all democracies".

Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, said the killing of bin Laden was a "decisive strike" at al-Qaeda. "At his command and in his name, terror was enforced into many countries against men women and children, Christians as well as Muslims," she said. "Osama bin Laden suggested that he was operating in the name of Islam, but in reality he makes a mockery of the fundamental values of his own and every other religion."

Several Asian countries also said bin Laden's death was a step forward in the war against terrorism. Chinese spokeswoman Jiang Yu said "China has taken note of the announcement. We believe the death of Osama bin Laden is a milestone and a positive development for the international anti-terrorism efforts." Japan, Malaysia and Singapore also welcomed the news.

Australia pledged not to withdraw forces from Afghanistan after the announcement. "Osama bin Laden declared war on innocent people and today he has paid the price for that declaration," Julia Gillard, the Prime Minister, said. "The mission in Afghanistan will continue," she added, saying al-Qaeda "will continue". Nicolas Sarkozy, the President of France, said bin Laden was a "promoter of the ideology of hatred and was the chief of a terrorist organization responsible for the deaths of thousands of victims, especially in Muslim countries," and "justice has been done" for the victims of al-Qaeda attacks.